//PROLOGUE
 
It was an unusually hot day this far north, even for this time of year. The bangs of Nathaniel’s black hair stuck to the palish skin of his forehead as he felt drops of sweat slide down his face. The crier in the market had said it was one-hundred and ten degrees. In all his fifteen years of life, he couldn’t remember it ever being hotter than this. It didn’t help that he was borderline sprinting through the forest.
“It’s hot,” said Nathaniel. “Why are we running south? It only gets hotter that way.”
“Only by a fraction of a degree,” said the lanky boy behind him, between heavy breaths, “If at all.”
    	“Yeah, yeah,” responded Nathaniel. He turned his head back a bit. “I’m still kinda surprised you came along, though, Daniel. Thought you’d be reading that new book you got. Especially seeing how hot it is.”
“Well, you just got back from out of town with your dad,” Daniel responded. “I’m a little worried though. Mom says there’s wolves in the woods. I’m not really supposed to go outside the gates.”
    	“On Eastrud?” Said the pale girl running just ahead of Nathaniel, “During the day? You see all the carts around? They scare the wolves.”
“Yeah, that,” Nathaniel shouted back at Daniel. He turned his head back forward. “Seraila, you think we could slow down a bit?”
    	“We’re almost there, I can see the trail now” she said. She looked over her shoulder at him. In the bright light, her eyes looked almost turquoise. “You good?”
“Yeah, I’m good. Daniel isn’t,” Nathaniel said.
“Well, we’re there, basically,” she responded, slowing down to a stop by a break in the underbrush, along the side of the wide dirt road they called Eastrud. Nathaniel did so as well, then looked back and watched as Daniel caught up to them a few seconds later.”
“Where… are we going?” Daniel gasped.
	“The river, right?” said Nathaniel. Seraila squinted her eyes at him.
	“How’d you know? I just told you guys to follow me,” she said.
	“What else is this way, this far down the road?” Nathaniel said.
	“Fair point, I guess,” Seraila conceded.
	“Why…” Daniel huffed, “did we have to run here?”
	“Why not? Plus, it’ll make the water feel better,” Seraila said. Daniel raised his finger to object, but changed his mind and put it down without saying anything.
	“C’mon, then,” Seraila said, beckoning them to follow down the trail. “We’ll go slower this time.”
	They walked down the trail. Compared to Eastrud, which was wide and fairly smooth due to the amount of traffic it got coming in from the country’s heartland, this barely looked like a road at all. Grass and weeds had started to grow in on the chokingly narrow pathway, which was also uneven, since it didn’t have horse and cart traffic to stomp it down. It fortunately wasn’t that long, in well under five minutes of brisk walking they saw the River Selihar.
	“I haven’t swam out here in years,” Seraila said.
	“I come out here every few months, but I don’t swim. Too cold,” Nathaniel said.
	“Of course it’s cold,” Daniel said, finally having caught his breath. “The River runs down from the mountains northwest over the border. It’s mostly melted snow.”
	“Yeah,” Seraila said, “but I bet it’ll be warm today.”
	They stopped on the bank. The river was fairly wide, well over ten times the width of the trail they’d been on, and wider so here, where it widened to about one and a half times its usual width. They called this place “the pool,” since it was circular and considerably deeper than the rest of the river. On either side there was a good five feet of dirt bank between the river and the trees. With no warning, Seraila threw her shoes behind her and burst into a full-on sprint, cannonballing into the water. She poked her head up a few seconds later, her face mostly covered by her dark hair. 
	“Come on, then!” She yelled. Nathaniel gave Daniel a sidelong glance, and shrugged. He then turned back forward and made a running jump into the pool, splashing in a few feet away from Seraila. He wiped the water out of his eyes when he surfaced. The temperature of the water was surprisingly tolerable, and revitalizing after the scorching heat of the air. He made eye contact with Seraila, who had her lips drawn in a wide grin.
	“What?” Nathaniel asked. She spit a stream of water which hit him square in the nose.
	“Hah!” She laughed. Nathaniel tried to give her a disapproving stare, but he couldn’t help but laugh too. They looked to Daniel over on the shore. He’d gotten about an ankle in and was just… standing there.
	“You good?” Seraila asked.
	“It’s cold,” Daniel said.
	“It’s not bad if you just jump, Daniel,” Seraila said.
	“That means it is bad,” Daniel said. He slowly took one more step forward. Nathaniel grinned at this: he always found Daniel’s reasonings amusing. He turned around to stretch his neck, but froze looking at the forest behind them. Among the thickly clustered trunks of the evergreens he saw a silhouette, human shaped, and rather tall. He turned all the way around and squinted into the forest. He couldn’t make out any defining characteristics, in fact it was so in the shadows that he wasn’t even entirely sure whether or not it was facing his direction.
	“What is it?” Seraila asked, turning to look at Nathaniel. Nathaniel glanced at her, craning his head over to where he saw the figure.
	“There,” he said, pointing. He put his arm down almost as soon as he’d extended it, though—the figure was gone.
	“Huh?” Seraila asked.
	“Nothing, I thought I saw someone,” Nathaniel said. Seraila looked into the forest where he’d pointed.
	“Hm,” she said.
	“It’s coooold,” came the voice of Daniel behind him.
	“You’re only just now up to your knees?” Seraila laughed. “It’s worse the longer you take to get in, you dingus.”
	“But I don’t—” 
	Daniel was cut off by Seraila holding out her arm perpendicular to her side just over the water and slowly moving towards Daniel. She grinned.
	“Please no,” Daniel said. Seraila plunged her arm into the water and threw an enormous wave flying at Daniel. Daniel emerged from it thoroughly drenched. 
	“There,” Seraila grinned, “now you should have no problem getting in the water.”
	Daniel just mumbled under his breath and started walking in deeper, now at more reasonable pace. 
	“That was a massive wave, S’rai’,” Nathaniel said. “You didn’t use magic for that, did you?”
	“Nah, I don’t really know any magic,” she said.
	“You’re really strong,” Nathaniel said. “You leave us in the dust on the way here and practically shift the pool over a few feet with just one arm.”
	“Well, I gotta be,” she said. “I wanna join the militia.”
	“You wanna join the militia? That’s new.”
	“In the militia you get to move around a bit, and you get new challenges all the time. You make a difference that you just don’t get to researching at a university.”
	“Hey,” Daniel said, “I wanna do research!”
	“And you should,” Seraila said, “but it’s just not for me. Militia’s more up my alley. Make decent money if you make it up the ranks, too.”
	“That’s fair,” Nathaniel said.
	“So what do you wanna do, Nathan?” Seraila asked.
	“I don’t really know,” Nathaniel said. “Militia doesn’t sound too bad.”
	“Surprised you don’t wanna be an herbalist,” Daniel said.
	“An herbalist?”
	“I’ve seen your sketches,” he said. “You probably know more about the plants in this forest than anyone else. You could, you know, travel the world documenting different flora. Or develop better irrigation systems and feed whole cities.” He had turned his gaze up to the sky and raised his arms while speaking, lost in the potential he saw. He turned his eyes down and made contact with Nathaniel, who chuckled at him. Daniel turned red.
	“That sounds like something I’d wanna do, actually,” Nathaniel said.
	“Nathan,” Seraila said from beside him, with unprecedented seriousness.
	“What is it?”
	“I see it,” she said, pointing. Nathaniel turned quick as he could in the water and caught the shadow of something about the same size of the figure he’d seen earlier disappearing from view.
	“What do you think?” Nathaniel asked, quietly.
	“We should go. Don’t like the feeling I’m getting,” she said. Nathaniel nodded, and Seraila swam to the edge and out of the pool fast as she could.
	“Daniel, come on,” Nathaniel said, following after her with similar urgency. Daniel stood there for a second watching the two frantically put their shoes back on.
	“But I just got in the water!”




	They all three ran down the side path fast as they could, seeking to return to the safety of the public eye on Eastrud as soon as possible. They made it there with no sight of anything that resembled the figure, though they certainly weren’t taking any time to look. They didn’t slow down once they reached the road, the simply took a sharp left out of the trail and kept sprinting back up the road to town.
	“Any of you gonna, like, let me know what’s going on?” Daniel asked, audibly ticked off.
	“Something was watching us,” Nathaniel said. He saw Daniel’s eyes widen, then lock onto the walls of the town growing on the horizon. None of them said a word until they were there, and no one fell behind anyone else.
	Just a step inside the stone wall’s gates, all three of them collapsed on the ground, huffing. More than a few passersby gave them concerned glances.
	“Do you think it followed us?” Nathaniel asked.
	“I didn’t see it, but even if it did, the militia guards can keep us safe as long as we’re within the walls,” Seraila said.
	“What was it, exactly?” Daniel asked. 
	“A person, I think,” Nathaniel said. A shadow crossed over the three.
	“Everything alright?” Came a low, stern voice. They looked up and saw a man standing over them—a tall man, towering several inches over a nearby stall which Nathaniel knew to be taller than the tallest man in town. His features were hard to make out. He wore a dark grey cloak which covered all his skin save his face, which it shadowed heavily. He had a short, dark grey beard, and his eyes were covered by a sort of bandana Nathaniel knew that certain priests would wear. This was odd to him though—Nathaniel had never actually seen a serious priest, as there had been no god to worship for nearly two-thousand years now. The tone in which the voice had been asked made it clear the speaker did actually care about their answer. It was almost angry.
	“Yes, fine!” Seraila said, jumping to her feet. “We’ll be going now, excuse us.” She gestured to the two boys on the ground, who scrambled up and followed her. After she thought she was out of earshot, she whispered to them:
	“That mighta been him. We should stay inside for the day. I don’t know what he wants, but us staying out in the open does not seem smart.”
	“I agree,” Daniel said. He pointed to the inn, the largest stone building out of the circle of them surrounding the town center. “I’m going home, we’ll meet under the bell tower at ten tomorrow?”
	“That sounds fine, Seraila said. Daniel nodded and ran off, then slowed to a jog when he remembered he was out of breath. Nathaniel and Seraila kept on speed-walking up the road, stopping when they passed Nathaniel’s house, a two story building on the side.
	“Can you get home on your own?” Nathaniel asked.
	“I mean you can see it from here, I’d certainly hope so,” she said. Nathaniel laughed.
	“Alright then, see you tomorrow?” 
	“Sure. But first, were you serious when you said the militia sounds like something you’d want to do?”
	“Yeah, I’d do it.”
	“We should enlist together,” she said. Nathaniel grinned a bit.
	“Sounds like a plan,” he said. Seraila smiled.
	“Great. ‘Till tomorrow!” She said, she turned and jogged back to her house a little ways down the same road. Nathaniel watched her do this about halfway, then went inside his own place.



	The evening was uneventful, and Nathaniel had forgotten about the figure they’d seen. He was up later than usual—probably around midnight—and he’d gotten lost in a book about the four types of magic that Daniel had loaned him a few days earlier. Magic wasn’t normally Nathaniel’s thing, as he was one of a relatively small subset of people who could barely use it, if at all, though this book was written in a style that stood out from the strict and monotonous wording of most scholarly texts, and he didn’t have anything else to do.
	It was then that he heard the screams. They were close.
	Outside, he thought, not that far off. He threw open his window and peered out. On the ground, illuminated by some of the street lamps, he could see what looked small dots that he hadn’t seen before. He followed the trail with his eyes both directions, he couldn’t tell where it ended looking in the direction away from town center, so he traced it back to the other end. He saw the same figure. Now illuminated, he could tell it was the man he’d seen earlier. He was walking quickly, covering his face with his hand. He saw that as the man walked, the trail of dots appeared under his feet. Their density seemed higher the closer to the man they got. The man halted. Nathaniel didn’t stop watching. The man twisted his neck and made direct eye contact with Nathaniel. Nathaniel hadn’t felt more fear in his life. From one cheek, across the nose to the other side of the forehead, the man had a deep bloody gash from which drops dripped down his face and became the dots on the ground. But that wasn’t what scared him. Now he could see the man’s eyes.
	They were yellow.
	Combined with his pale complexion, it meant one thing: the man was a Fuuren: a member of a race feared world-round that hadn’t been seen on this continent in over a thousand years. Nathaniel fell onto the floor and hid. He’d heard legends of Fuuren in his youth. Each was the tale of a massacre. He didn’t know how long he sat there, cowering on the floor, paralyzed. Eventually he drew the willpower to stand and peer over the window sill. The man was no longer there, and the trail had continued far into the direction that he’d been walking and ran out of sight. Then Nathaniel realized where the trail came from.
	Seraila’s house.
	He wasn’t sure what came over him, but he sprinted down the stairs of his house and threw open the door. Barefoot he sprinted over the freezing cobblestone road, following the path of blood to the house of his lifelong friend. The front door was crooked, hanging off its hinge. He gripped the handle, swallowed, and pulled. He threw up before he’d even opened it halfway. Before him he saw Seraila’s mother lying on the floor, face down in a sanguine pool of her own blood, clenching a rusty, bloodstained kitchen knife with a cold hand. He pushed the door open the rest of the way. In the back of the room, he saw Seraila strewn across a table. Her skin was sickly pale, her jaw hung ajar, and her eyes were open, frozen wide and half rolled up in her head.
Nathaniel fainted. He woke up in his own room with the sun outside, but he wouldn’t move from his bed for a week, and wouldn’t be the same for a long time after.

Five years later
PART I
The Mad Wizard, the Shadows of Yol, and the Druid             
//I
Deace, Naaln Viceroyalty, Sa’aru


“No, I don’t think I know anyone who can read that script,” the bookseller said, brow furrowed. Nathaniel frowned. He knew he recognized the script, so he figured there ought to be someone around who could read it—this was a university town, after all. He flipped through the pages again, eventually stopping on the first, which contained only a single line, in bold:

“Do you know anything about the book itself, at least?” he asked.
“Not really,” replied the bookseller, “I got it free from a man up north in Zhara. White beard, green cloak. I understand why, I suppose.”
“Why?” Nathaniel asked. The merchant looked him in the eye.
	“I think it’s pretty obvious. You can have it for a coin, if you really want it.”
	Nathaniel gave the merchant his coin, unsure why he was so willing to part with the book. He examined it again. The leather in which it was bound was rugged and faded, confirming the book was old, as he expected. Despite this, the book itself seemed to be in remarkably good condition.  A silver tree shone on the center of the cover. It was clearly a symbol of some sort, though Nathaniel wasn’t familiar with it. At Cowissk, the college to the north, he had a friend named Daniel, a mage-in-training. He was his only remaining friend from childhood. If Daniel couldn’t read the text, he’d at least know where to find someone who could.
Nathaniel tucked the book under his arm and began to walk home, pushing through the overcrowded center of Deace, a town that, to the rest of the world, was little more than a rest-stop on the way to the Ayan Empire over the border not far to the north. Nathaniel, however, was born here, and had lived here all his life. As a result of its situation, the town had remained small in size despite having existed in some form for more than three thousand years. Even if more people wished to live here, expansion would be difficult, as the town was surrounded on all sides by the tall, evergreen trees of the dense, trans-continental forest called the Miir. Even now it was cramped, comprised of tightly-packed one- and  two-story stone buildings, built around the intersection of three roads: one for north, southeast, and southwest; which the small amount of people who actually lived in the town colloquially referred to as “northrud,” “eastrud,” and “westrud” respectively. Resting at the center of town, where the roads met, was the market, and at its heart stood a bell tower that rang at noon. Walking through the market was the surest way to get news, as it was there that all passers-through inevitably stopped. The news hadn’t changed much over the past few days. The big news was that there were reports of increased activity from the world’s largest and most organized criminal syndicate, the Meáltah, which had been “missing in action” for a decade or so up in this country’s northern neighbor, the Ayan Empire.
He’d pushed his way out of the market and was moving towards his residence when he heard a scream, that of a small child, come from an alley next to him. He had to delay returning to his home to read the book, as this was his job. Nathaniel paid his rent and education fees with the wage he earned from working as a militiaman in the town. With his free hand, he pulled his militia-issued blade from his waist. It was a piece of junk with dull, chipped edges, but it worked for these rare occasions he had to use it. He hurried into the alley, sword in his left hand and book in his right. 
There were very few alleys in Deace, and those that existed were very narrow. Nathaniel worried he’d be unable to use his sword well in this space, as he was at best only an average swordsman.
Here was the child that had screamed, sitting on the ground, in tears. A boy, probably about four or five years old.
“What happened?” Nathaniel asked, softly.
“Mum’s necklace!” The child sobbed, pointing farther into the alley. Nathaniel looked to where the boy had pointed and froze.
“Go wait outside,” Nathaniel said, authoritatively. “It’s not safe here.” Nathaniel’s eyes had locked with another pair, glowing yellow, which looked out at him from inside a black robe.
“Necklace!” Cried the child.
“I’ll get your necklace,” said Nathaniel, not turning his head. “Just please wait outside, okay?” The child stood and ran back out into the street. Nathaniel set the book on the ground behind him. Normally, just showing his blade was enough to get the petty criminals around here to give in, but he knew from the yellow eyes peering at him that that wasn’t going to be the case this time. Besides the eyes, the only defining characteristic Nathaniel could make out was a faint scar across his pale nose. He knew this man. He could never forget. Now he raised his blade. He could tell he was terrified by the relentless pounding of his heart and the shortness of his breaths, but he was so focused on the man in front of him that he wasn’t affected by it.
“Who are you?”
There was no response. The figure raised his hand, which began to glow bright blue. Now he felt the terror. Nathaniel knew he was helpless against magic, as he was unable to use it himself. He began to back away slowly, keeping his eyes on the figure. A felt a burn on his back—like he’d fallen into a fire—that pushed him forward and onto the ground. He groaned and looked behind him. A simmering wall of what looked like black smoke blocked his exit.
“You are not going anywhere,” said a deep voice. Looking up, Nathaniel saw that the man was right in front of him now, the glowing hand raised. A deep noise above them. The figure looked up, then, with frightening speed, dropped his arm and dashed backwards, disappearing into a cloud of black smoke.
 Nathaniel knelt there on the ground for a moment, still not sure what had just happened. The wall behind Nathaniel faded. Where the man had stood, a bit of metal glinted on the ground. Nathaniel went and picked it up—the necklace. Clutching it in his hands, he glanced back up in the direction the noise had came from. He thought he saw a man up on the rooftop out of the corner of his eye, but when he had fully turned there was nothing there. 
He thought for a while about what had just happened. The eyes he’d seen left no room for doubt—he’d just faced a Fuuren, a man of a race that personified fear to all the rest of the world. More troubling than having faced one, however, was that he faced one here. The Fuuren hadn’t been seen anywhere in Yjaru beyond the borders of their Empire across the ocean for over three thousand years. He walked now out of the alley, picking up the book on the way.
The boy sat outside the alley entrance with his head in his palms. Nathaniel tapped him on the shoulder and pressed the necklace into his hands.
“Here,” he said. The boy’s eyes lit up, and he thanked Nathaniel, who only nodded. He started down the road again, so lost in thought he almost walked past the medium-sized building in which he rented a room. Inside, he set the book down on his desk. His room was somewhat cramped, containing three pieces of furniture: a bed for a single person, a desk, and a chest-of-drawers that contained everything he owned.
Nathaniel opened the top drawer of the chest. From it, he retrieved a portrait and an unsealed parcel, from which he retrieved several papers.
The portrait depicted a younger Nathaniel: light-skinned, with short, black hair and green eyes, standing next to a girl with lighter skin, dark blue eyes, and thick, black hair that fell to her shoulders. Both of them were average height for their respective sexes. The girl was Seraila.
Nathaniel still remembered the day this was painted: a bright day in mid-summer. An artist had come to town painting portraits for cheap, so Seraila suggested they have one painted of them. Apart from Daniel, who was usually buried in a book, Seraila was the only other kid in their age group in Deace during Nathaniel’s childhood. It had been five years since her murder, the same year this portrait was painted. He’d just seen the man he knew to be her killer, the face of whom had haunted his nightmares for years. Seraila’s death had been the most significant event in Nathaniel’s life to date, and he had never fully gotten over his grief, especially seeing as Deace was a small town with no one else to fill the void. As such, he’d become relatively reserved since then.
Nathaniel glanced over the papers. They were letters that Nathaniel and Seraila had sent each other in the event that they were too far away to meet in person. He sat there for a minute, then put the papers back in the parcel, and put the parcel and portrait back in the drawer.
He got off of his bed and moved back to the desk, opening the tome again. He flipped through the drawings. Many pages were diagrams of what he recognized as a method of recording spells, some showed great black weapons like blades or spikes; others were maps of places, most of which detailed environments like deserts or snowlands which had to be far away from here. The standout, though, was a drawing of particularly ominous character on the very first page. It was a detailed illustration of a man—a tall, very strong man—with the tanned skin of a southeasterner, long dark hair, and crimson red eyes. He wore a sadistic grin. Though it was only a drawing, Nathaniel noticed a palpable sort of malice. He wanted to know more, but tonight he would get no farther.
Tomorrow, he’d be at Cowissk for most of the day, where he’d be able to speak to Daniel, who lived on campus. Nathaniel lived in Deace itself since he served in the town's militia. 
Nathaniel closed the book and set it on the desk once again. He ate a hunk of bread, then slid his blade under his bed and changed into nightclothes, falling asleep almost immediately. 
That night Nathaniel dreamt of the book, of the drawings and writings some part of him felt like he should be able to understand. They made no more sense to him in dream than in life.



Nathaniel woke, fed himself, then went to retrieve his bag from the chest, putting the book inside. He still had two hours until classes started at seven-thirty, and the cart ride to the university took only half an hour. Leaving early was the best idea, he thought, as he still needed to take the book to Daniel. Grabbing his sword and strapping it to his waist, he walked out of his building into the cool of the morning. He moved to the north side of the market, from where the cart leaves that runs from Deace to Cowissk and back.
Nathaniel arrived as the carriage was starting to take on passengers. He walked up to the driver.
“Room for one more?” Nathaniel asked.
“Just one,” responded the driver, a skinny, pale man. “Hop in.”
Another perk to Nathaniel’s militia membership was that he got free rides to the college. He took the seat closest to the covered cart’s entrance, on the left side, while the driver sat himself in the front. With the crack of his whip, they started on the way up the northern road.
    	The journey went smoothly, taking a little under the usual half-an-hour. Nathaniel was the first out of the carriage. Here was the courtyard of Cowissk, officially named the College of William, the Second Sorcerer King. Built over three-thousand years ago by order of the man for which it was named, it now sat near the northern edge of the Miir and served as the premier college for all things to do with magic. The courtyard was square shaped, with a covered, open-air walkway going around all sides. On the north side was the main building: a massive, elaborate structure that resembled a palace. On the right side, if viewed from the forest, was a three-story complex, which contained the dormitories. 
Nathaniel walked from the carriage around the fountain in the middle of the courtyard and to the dormitories. He then climbed the stairs up to the second story and found the door to Daniel’s room.
“Daniel, it’s Nathan,” he said. A series of thuds and clinks came from what were probably books and pens hitting the floor. A somewhat higher-pitched masculine voice answered.
“Uh, hullo, one minute,” it said. More thuds and stumbling followed. It was actually three minutes that passed, but eventually the door opened and Daniel stood in the frame. Dark bags drooped under his eyes; he had probably been studying all night. The only thing he and Nathaniel had in common was a pale complexion (which was to be expected, as almost everyone in the northeast of Yjaru, the world of being, was fair-skinned). His brown eyes, red-blonde hair, and thin build were the opposite of Nathaniel’s features. “Hey, Nathan. Do you need something?” he said, rubbing his eyes. “It’s rather early.” 
“Yeah,” Nathaniel said, holding up the book. “I was wondering if you could translate some of the text in this. That’s your kind of thing, isn’t it?” Daniel glanced at the cover.
“I would, but I’m unfathomably busy right now,” he said, then pausing to think. “You could ask Andus, my professor, though. He’d be able to make quick work of the translations. Check room two-thirteen, he’ll likely be in there.” Nathaniel nodded, giving his thanks.
“Sorry I couldn’t help. See you.” Daniel said. He gave a nod and shut the door. Rather than waiting until classes had ended, Nathaniel decided to go see Andus now. Perhaps that way he would have some translations, or a translation key of some sort, at the end of the day.
Nathaniel exited the dorm rooms and walked into the lobby. The space was circular, with a ramped indentation in the floor that gave the room a slight bowl shape, though the floor at the bottom of was flat. On the far side of the room, there was a curved desk, and behind the desk sat two staff members in blue robes. Doors flanked both sides of the room, both of which led to a network of hallways and staircases. Nathaniel took a right and went up a flight of stairs. Once on the second floor, it still took him several minutes to locate room 2-13, as the rooms were numbered rather obtusely. The sign next to the door read “Room 2-13, Professor Andus Uwren - Advanced Combat Magic and Magic History.” Knocking on the door, Nathaniel anxiously awaited a response. He’d heard rumors that this professor in particular had a bit of a temper, and hoped he wasn’t disturbing anything important.
“Enter,” replied a deep voice.
Nathaniel opened the door and entered the room. Andus looked at Nathaniel. He appeared to be in his early fifties, a gaunt man who would be abnormally tall if he didn’t slouch. His neck-length hair was fully grey, probably from stress. He had dark blue eyes a large nose with a bridge that ran shallowly down then abruptly dropped at a much sharper angle, and a subtle but noticeable twitch in his right eye. He spoke:
“Hello, student. I don’t believe you’re one of mine. Your name?”
“Nathaniel.”
“Hmm, Nathaniel. Would that be Nathaniel Jathien?” Andus asked. Nathaniel nodded, surprised he knew his name. “Interesting. I believe I’ve heard your name come up in a conversation with the herbalism professor. He is fond of you. Can I do something for you?” he said, already eying the book.
“I bought this book yesterday,” Nathaniel said. “It’s full of a script I can’t read. Ayan, I think. Daniel said you might be able to translate them.” He handed the book to the professor.
“Let me see,” Andus said, opening the book. He briefly flipped through the pages, eyes widening as he did so. He slammed shut the book and threw it on the table. “Is this supposed to be a joke?!” he screamed, furious.
“What?” Nathaniel said, now backed into a corner.
“What do you mean what? The book is—,” Andus paused and looked over at the book on the table, then back at Nathaniel, then again to the book. “I…” He paused. “My age has taken a toll on my eyes. Yes… yes, I may be able to translate these. See me… yes. After classes today. See me then.” Nathaniel nodded and hurried from the room. As he approached the door, he heard Andus say a word he could not understand:
“Laradzi.”



After the conclusion of the day’s classes, Nathaniel returned to Andus’ room and knocked on the door. No response. He waited a moment and knocked again. Still nothing. He tried the knob and found it was unlocked. Slowly, he cracked open the door and peered inside.
Andus was nowhere to be seen, though, the book was lying on his desk, with a white sheet of paper resting on top. Nathaniel stepped into the room, walked to the desk and retrieved the paper. It was folded in half, horizontally, with “Nathaniel” scribbled on top. Nathaniel picked up the paper and opened it. Blank. 
For a while, Nathaniel stood there confused, staring at the paper. There were footsteps behind him. Whirling around, he barely had time to notice the glint of steel falling towards him, a black figure behind it. He dodged to the side, hand reaching for his blade, heart pounding. An axe hit the floor where he had been standing. The man holding the weapon rotated his head so fast Nathaniel barely saw it move. Yellow eyes peered out at him from a pale face. Another Fuuren. Nathaniel had his blade ready now, prepared for the next attack. The Fuuren lunged towards Nathaniel, swinging his axe downward again. There was no room to dodge this time. Turning his blade horizontally, he parried, taking the impact of the axe, then drove his boot hard into the man’s stomach and launching him forward. The man dropped his axe, giving Nathaniel time to stand.
	His blade had snapped.
	The top half of his sword hit the ground, leaving him holding a hilt with little more than a half-foot of iron left on it. He got up and hurled himself over the desk trying to find a spot with more maneuvering room with little luck. The man had started to charge him again. Nathaniel jumped, now just praying he could somehow make it to the door. A blinding light erupted behind him. Magic. He landed on the ground and sat there on his knees, waiting for his end to come. 
He sat for a long while before he realized nothing was happening. Slowly, he stood up and turned around. The man in the black cloak was now on the floor, bleeding profusely. Over him stood a figure, cloaked in a brown poncho, gripping a shining silver blade.The figure turned around. Nathaniel froze. She was of pale complexion with shoulder-length black hair. Her eyes were brighter—almost glowing—but the identity was unmistakable.
It was Seraila.
“Nathan,” she said. “Come with me.”

//II
Deace, Naaln Viceroyalty, Sa’aru

Those words echoed in Nathaniel’s mind. The first words he’d heard from her in five years.
	“Seraila? I was there when you died. I saw them bury you.”
Nathaniel felt like he should be crying, or screaming, but he wasn’t. He sat in place on the ground, merely shuddering.
	“Hi, Nathan,” she said. A short silence. “I’m sorry to meet you again like this. I was dead. I’d been dead in the void for four years, until a year ago. I was reanimated as a Banshee, you see.”
	“One of the undead that protect the world from Black Magic?”
	“Yes. I can explain more later, but you’ll die if you stay here. We have to go, now.”
	“What? Why?”
	“You got a particularly bad kind of attention from something very powerful, though I don’t know who or what it is. This Fuuren here was the beginning, but he doesn’t even compare to the magnitude of what I feel coming your way.”
	“What’s coming my way? And why are there Fuuren here? I saw another yesterday.”
	“Was it the same one this time?”
	“No, the first one had a scar across his nose.”
	“A scar across the nose?” Seraila asked abruptly.
	“Yeah,” Nathaniel said. “The one that killed you.”
	“So he’s involved too” Seraila said. She closed her eyes briefly, as though she was in pain. “Listen. When a banshee is resurrected, she has to swear a pact to never make contact with a living person. We protect the living without them knowing about it. There are very good reasons behind this oath, and I swore it like all the others, knowing that breaking it would mean that I would be hunted down and permanently eliminated. However, when I felt the power of whatever it is that you’ve angered, I knew there was no way I could stop it. I am breaking the pact that brought me back into this world to save you.”
“I feel like we should get a move on, then,” he said, putting the broken blade around his waist again.
“Clearly, but we need somewhere to go,” Seraila replied, pausing momentarily. “Do you have any idea what caused all this? Do you know anyone who could possibly explain what’s going on?” Nathaniel thought for a moment, until he remembered what the merchant told him.
“I would guess it’s related to this book,” Nathaniel said, picking the book up off of Andus’ desk. “I bought it yesterday.” Seraila reached out for it and flipped through the pages. 
“Nathaniel, this book is completely empty,” she said.
“What? Give it here,” he said, taking the book back. The pages were clearly full. “Do you not see the blade here?”
“No, it’s a white page. Normally I’d suggest that you’re completely insane, but I’m inclined to believe you, given the situation. Did you show the book to anyone?”
“The professor in this room,” Nathaniel said. Seraila closed her eyes again for a moment.
“There’s black magic residue around this room. I think you’re right. Do you know anything about the book?”
 “Not really. The merchant I bought it from said he got the book from a white bearded man in a green robe up in Zhara.” Seraila considered this for a moment.
“Do you think he could help us?” she asked.
“Can’t be certain, but it seems likely to me that he would know why the book warranted this kind of reaction.” Seraila looked at Nathaniel.
“It’s definitely a start, and better than waiting here.” She turned her head briefly towards the door. “I don’t think we should use the hallways,” she said, turning to Nathaniel. “Hold on!” she yelled. She took Nathaniel’s arm and pulled so hard Nathaniel had his breath torn from him and his vision blurred.
He felt like he was choking. It looked like the world around him disassembled itself into smaller and smaller bits until it all became one monotonous black abyss. Ahead, he saw a pale blue figure in place of Seraila’s body. Again came the sensation of impact, a feeling like he’d been torn out of the fabric of the world itself. His vision went blurry for the second time. When it cleared, he recognized that he was no longer in the abyss, but in the Miir, a grove north of Cowissk that he’d been to on several occasions. He was on his knees, but Seraila was standing, surveying their surroundings.
“You alright?” she asked. “I know it can be pretty jarring your first time.”
“What was that?” asked Nathaniel.
“The void. The technique is called phasing, where you move yourself into the void in order to gain faster movement, ignoring things in your path. It’s an ability I got when I came back. Long story short, I got us out before it was too late.”
“Can you tell me before you do that again?”
“If I’d explained it, you might’ve hesitated. I didn’t know how much longer we had until someone else came.”
	“Fair, I guess. Can we use it to get to Zhara too?”
	“Yes, technically, but it’s not safe. Staying in the void for too long puts me at risk of being captured and puts you at risk of dying.”
	“Okay, we won’t use it. Do we just start walking?”
	“That’s the idea. We should stay away from northrud until we get out of the Miir, in
case they’re looking for us.”
Nathaniel and Seraila began their trek through the Miir. After the two had been walking for about half an hour they caught sight of a blue glow coming from the direction of northrud.
“Magefire,” said Nathaniel. “I’ve seen it at the college. Think whoever’s holding those torches was called by Professor Andus?”
“Probably,” Seraila replied, staring blankly in that direction for a while. “Mm-hmm, mages, strong sense of black magic.” She sighed, still looking that way. “Fazhul manaus,” she muttered.
“What?”
“It’s Ancient Ayan,” she said, “It roughly means ‘mage scum,’ translated in the politest way possible.”
“You speak Ancient Ayan?”
“I learned it in the void. A lot of Ayan souls are still around.”
The torchlight was beginning to fade off in the direction of Deace. Nathaniel knew that they would search his house thoroughly and relentlessly to find him, and, more likely than not, anything he left there would be destroyed. There was no going back now.



Once they had made it a considerable distance past Cowissk, the two moved to travelling along northrud rather than the forest, in an effort to make their already long walk less painful and slightly faster. With the forest left behind, they were now surrounded by vast, open, grassy plains. It was late spring, so it was still bright out despite the time. There was a considerable amount of traffic on the road, as the road was one of the few that linked the Ayan Empire and Naaln Viceroyalty together. After six hours of walking, the sky had grown dark and overcast. Shortly after, rain began to pour down.
“Wonderful,” Nathaniel said, shivering. He looked at Seraila, who seemed unperturbed by the pelting of the freezing rain. “Aren’t you cold?” He asked. Seraila turned to him.
“Cold doesn't bother me so much anymore. As a perk of being a banshee, I’m better at ignoring physical stimuli than you are,” she said. Nathaniel smiled. 
“Dying sounds nice. I may try it sometime.” Seraila frowned at him.
“The flaw in your little plan is that very few of those who die are sent back into Yjaru itself. I was lucky. ”
“I see.”
 The clopping of horse hooves and the rattling of carriage wheels approached from behind, then a covered red carriage  pulled up and halted beside them. It’s driver, a human, leaned out of the cockpit.
“You two need a ride, then?”
“We don’t have any money,” Seraila said.
“S’fine. I’m already on my way, and I’ve room. I’ll take you to up to Zhara.”
“Thank you,”said Nathaniel, getting in back. Both he and Seraila sat by the entrance. Both sides of the cart were benches, filled with an assortment of people, all elves and humans, though, judging by the darkness of their skin, a few of them seemed to be from the western continent, Semaru. Most of the passengers seemed rather relaxed, except for one of them, an elf, roughly of the same height (tall for an elf) and skin tone as Nathaniel, with his hair was pulled back in a short brown ponytail on the back of his head. Large brown eyes, angular face. He wore a lot of brown: a leather jacket with a lot of pockets, and some kind of basic shirt underneath. It wasn’t that he seemed menacing, just unusually alert.
Within three hours, the great marble walls of Jara were visible. The rain had stopped and the clouds had begun to part in some spots. The horses were at full-trot, and so the incessant clop of hooves filled the three’s ears. The driver turned around. 
“I imagine we’ll be there within the next hour and a half!” He yelled. Over much of the course of the ride, Nathaniel had been sleeping, however at this point he was very much awake. 
“Seraila?”
“Mm?” 
“When you died-”
“I remember a face, beyond that I don’t know.”
They continued up the road in silence.



	A  massive jolt threw the cart into the air and crashing down on its side. Nathaniel sat up and looked around. Seraila was just as shocked as he was, and held onto the sides of the carriage, which at this point was the bench where she had been sitting. Looking around, Nathaniel saw that all the other passengers were incapacitated, except the elf, who’d somehow managed to get out of the cart while it was spinning and land safely. The elf got up from the dirt road and rubbed his head, which now had a bruise on its upper right side. Nathaniel looked out the front of the carriage; the horses were lying on their sides and the driver had rolled out of the front, dead. Nathaniel began to crawl forward towards the opening in the front. Two black arrows split the skulls of both horses before his eyes. Behind him, the elf’s eyes widened. 
	“Damn!” he yelled, placing his hand on something under his jacket. A lighter thunk came near Seraila. Quickly, flames began lapping at the back of the carriage, and were spreading fast. Nathaniel’s adrenaline kicked in.
	“Get out, now!” he yelled. Seraila and he clambered out as fast as they could. In front of the carriage, they and the elf now stood back-to-back-to-back. At this point they became aware of the enemy. At least a dozen fully armed men and women of both human and elvish descent, all clad in black leather armor. All had steel swords, and there were several more armed with bows. Amongst them was one in a slightly different set off apparel, a black, hooded robe with leather shoulder-guards. Nathaniel froze. The robed one had a scar across his nose.
	“Kill them,” said the robed one. All of the attackers who had not yet drawn their weapon did so, encircling the trio. Nathaniel froze in fear. The elf, however, sprung into action. Grinning, he began to take slow, small steps outward which became longer and faster as he progressed away from the other two and out towards the ring of attackers, both Nathaniel and Seraila watching in part-awe and part-horror. Suddenly, the elf leaped over the ring of attackers, grabbing one of them by the eye-sockets and slamming him hard into the ground. Now outside the ring, he unsheathed two shining daggers from under his jacket and bolted back towards the ring, plunging both blades into the necks of separate attackers. 
By the time the elf had removed the blades from the necks of the now-dead attackers, the whole of the group had focused on him, and he was now struggling to dodge and deflect the flurry of swords slashing at him. Seraila’s face grew serious. She thrust a single palm directly up into the air, and above her palm a swirling, glowing cloud of smoke appeared which erratically weaved about and morphed into the shining silver blade from before, which she grabbed and charged into the fray with. Although Seraila and the elf we’re handling their foes well considering the odds, Nathaniel could tell that his assistance would be critical if they were all to survive this encounter. He ran to the now-smoldering remains of the carriage and plucked one of the black incendiary arrows from out of one the planks. Nathaniel held the arrow like a dagger in one hand and drew his shattered sword with the other, then sprinted to assist Seraila and the elf. None of the attackers noticed Nathaniel’s approach. Taking advantage of this, Nathaniel plunged the arrow into the back of one of the attacker’s skulls. To Nathaniel’s surprise, the attacker burst into a blaze. He yanked the arrow from the attacker and stepped backwards to observe the attacker’s body becoming engulfed in flames. The flames continued to burn even after the attacker passed. He’d taken a life once before in the militia, and although he was far from comfortable performing the act, he didn’t have the time to think about it now. A bloodcurdling roar erupted behind him. Nathaniel spun around just in time to dodge an attacker lunging at him. The man stumbled as he fell, and Nathaniel plunged the arrow into the base of his skull.
	At this point the attackers were spread around the area, and there was a large queue of carriages and horses on both sides of the road, keeping their distance as they watched the fight unfold. The robed one beckoned the other assailants to back off. They once again formed a circle around Nathaniel, Seraila, and the elf. The robed man raised his arms straight out to his sides, and Nathaniel caught a glimpse of light skin and a short, white beard beneath the man’s hood. The man wore an unnerving grin as he said 
	“Laiinfasham ayn!” in his unnerving voice. His hands became a momentary blur and began to glow red. The man thrust his hands forward, hurling ball of flame towards the trio. Seraila shoved the other two to the side, and her hand began to glow with white light. Time seemed to move slowly. She yelled as the light about her hands grew in intensity, then thrust her palms out as the man did. From her, a sphere of what appeared to pure light shot forward and collided with the fireball. In a blinding flash, both the fireball and Seraila’s projectile dispersed, propelling a shock wave outward that knocked everyone off of their feet. Time resumed as normal, and the robed man stood up. His hood had been blown back, revealing a Fuuren’s yellow eyes and grey hair. He beckoned to his men.
	“We’re leaving! Our lord will not be pleased with our failure!” he yelled. The remaining assailants stood and sheathed their weapons. “Uqhro komåu kaholh hohråb hoalh!” the robed one yelled. Immediately, with what appeared to be a flash of pure darkness, the survivors were gone. All that was left was the trio, the flaming wreckage of the carriage, and several bloodied bodies strewn about. The elf was the first to speak.
	“That was fun,” he said. “You both fight well.” 
Seraila eyed him. “You nearly had a sword redesign your insides, yet you seem completely unbothered.”
	“I’m an ex-mercenary,” the elf replied. “This kind of scenario was fairly common for me.”
	“A Mercenary? That would explain a few things,” said Seraila. 
The elf grinned. “Though my group wasn’t the highwaymen you are probably thinking of, as most do. They are subtle, and much, much more lethal.”
	“So you were an assassin,” Seraila said.
	“Yes.”
	“Should we be concerned?” Nathaniel asked, slightly worried.
	“No. Like I said, ex-mercenary. Ex-assassin. I’m actually fleeing from my former group now, if that’s any consolement.”
	“What’s your group called?” Seraila asked.
	“The Meáltah, if you must know.”
	“You were part of the largest criminal syndicate in the world?” Nathaniel exclaimed. “I wouldn’t call them mercenaries.”
	“It’s usually easier for people to swallow if I say ‘mercenary.’ I’m only telling you the truth because I might’ve died if you two didn’t fight.”
	A passenger coach that had been back watching the fight pulled up to the three. The driver, a dark-skinned elvish woman, offered to give them a free ride to Zhara. The three graciously accepted and seated themselves in back. As the carriage set off, Seraila leaned over to Nathaniel.
	“Nathan, the man in the robes.”
	“He’s the one who tried to kill me,” said Nathan.
	“And he’s the one who succeeded in killing me,” she said. They were both silent for a long time.
	“Are you sure?”
	“I saw my mother give him that scar with a kitchen knife before he tore out her soul.”
	“What could your death possibly have to do with what’s going on now?”
	“No idea.”
	“Looks like you two are fleeing something of your own,” the elf said to them.
	“We are, but we don’t even understand what we’re fleeing from,” replied Seraila.
	“I at least know what that’s like. My name’s Claio, by the way. Claio Eade-il Doras the Third, if you’re being specific.”
	“I’m Nathaniel.”
	“I’m Seraila.”
	“Good to meet you two,” Claio said. He made eye contact with Seraila. “You’re a banshee, aren’t you?” he asked. Seraila’s eyes widened.
	“How did you know?” She asked, guardedly.
	“I owe my life to the intervention of at least two banshees.”
	“How do you even know what one looks like?”
	“I know about the whole “no unnecessary contact” pact. I found the banshees, not the other way around. I like to know who solves my problems for me, and I’ve been trained in tracking. On that note, riding with Nathaniel seems strikingly like unnecessary contact.”
	“It’s a long story,” Seraila said.
	“We have time.”
	The party rode up the road to Zhara, informing Claio of the events which had led up to their flight, of Seraila’s oathbreaking, and of the book, which Claio agreed was completely blank.
	


	The coach approached the great gates of Zhara and let the three off. The streets were packed, so much so that it was a struggle to move anywhere among the crowds. Numerous vendors lined the streets, selling goods ranging from petty trinkets to elaborately embroidered clothing. The trio pushed and shoved their way through the crowd, until they finally found some breathing room.
	“You’ll go looking for this green-robed man, then?” Claio inquired.
	“Yes. It’s all I can do, really,” responded Nathaniel.
	“This is your first time in the city, isn’t it? If you need a guide, I’m more than willing.”
Nathaniel and Seraila shared a nod.
	“You’ll help?” Nathaniel asked.
	“Sure, I’ve nothing better to do. I prefer to travel in numbers, too.”
	“Alright. Do you know anyone who’d keep a lot of old books?” Nathaniel queried.
	“That’s a bit too vague. A lot of bookish types among the permanent residents here.”
A pale hand grabbed Nathaniel’s shoulder.
“Ex-cuse-me,” a low, monotonous voice said. Nathaniel turned, and was met with yellow eyes. He yelled and tried to jump back, but the hand gripped too tightly.
“ælde-arolh.”
	Around the party, tendrils of black took form and wove themselves into chains in the air, clasping themselves around the three’s wrists and ankles. They now hanged suspended several feet in the air, watching the Fuuren below them. The crowd in the street below them screamed, scrambling to get away.
	The Fuuren’s face began to melt and his eyes lit up. A shrill shot through the air, shattering windows lining the street and deafening the three. The light came through tears in the Fuuren’s skin now, and the shrill only grew louder.
	“Well, we’re gone,” Claio said, snarkily.
	The sound peaked, and all three closed their eyes. The last thing Nathaniel saw was a green light from a rooftop out of the corner of his eye.
	There was the sound of an explosion, which Nathaniel expected, though it was much quieter and lower than he’d imagined. To his surprise again, he felt no pain. He opened his eyes and saw a shining, oblong green dome where the Fuuren had been, containing a cloud of smoke and sparks. From behind it, a man emerged—a white-bearded man in a green robe.

//III
Zhara, Ayan Empire, Sa’aru

	
	The bearded man snapped his fingers, dispersing the field, letting the smoke spread and drift into the sky. Nathaniel and Claio coughed as it blew into their faces. The man glanced at the whole party, and then stared hard at Nathaniel.
	“You will all follow me, and you will do everything I say,”  he said. With no hesitation the party rose to their feet.
	“My name is Zace Yden,” said the man. “Speak yours, now.”
	“Nathaniel Jathien.”
	“Seraila Endall.”
	“Claio Eade-il Doras the Third.”
Zace only nodded, and led the party through less-used roads deeper into the city. 
	“What was that thing?” Nathaniel eventually blurted. Zace didn’t stop his steady striding nor even turn his head towards him.
	“I will explain when we reach my home. While we’re walking, you could explain what’s going on.”



	“Here,” said Zace. The party was in front of a small, square, stone house not much different from the rest of the architecture in Zhara. Zace opened the door to a spiral staircase that wound its way down deeper into the house. Zace started down and beckoned for the party to follow.
	At the bottom was a grand room, at least thirty feet tall, and twice that in width. Bookshelves lined most of the walls, which were made of smooth cobblestone. The room lowered slightly in the center, into a small circular ring.
	“So, Nathaniel.” Zace said. “You have my book?” He looked at Nathaniel. 
Nathaniel quickly grabbed it from his bag and held it out to Zace, who took it and flipped through the pages.
	“Definitely mine, I know each of these pages like the back of my hand. Although something’s different,” he said, flipping through the pages with purpose now. He stopped on the inside of the back cover, revealing a black mark; an ‘x’ with a line on top. “Someone marked this book. I had put it out on the cart knowing that it would attract the kind of person I was looking for based on the magic it contained, but someone else hijacked it. It must have alerted them when you got the book. That would explain your first encounter with a Fuuren. The mark doesn’t emit any magic now, meaning it was probably only good for one use. But you had an encounter with two Fuuren, who haven't been seen outside the Black Empire for millennia, which means someone summoned them to your location on two separate occasions. You showed this book to someone, whom?”
	Nathaniel was reluctant, but after a pause he spoke.
	“I showed it to Andus, at the-”
	“You showed it to him?”
	“What’s his deal? What is he?” Asked Nathaniel. Zace pulled up a wooden chair and sat.
	“Make yourselves comfortable. I’m going to start from the beginning,” he said. They all pulled chairs from around the room. “Do you know of the Unraveling?”
“The worldwide collapse three-thousand years ago,” answered Claio.
“Indeed,” Zace said, leaning forward in his chair. “It began with the Black March
Just over three millennia ago in the fifteen hundredth year, when the Ayan Emperor attempted to kill the Creator, believing that taking its power would allow him to rebuild his empire's former glory. His plan was a colossal failure, and less than thirty of the ten-thousand men who participated in the march survived, including the emperor himself. Though the emperor couldn’t amass any meaningful amount of the Creator’s power, the proverbial Throne of God was empty. Failing to hide this act, the world quickly heard that the Ayans were responsible for the death of the Creator. Through this revelation, the other nations were led to partially or completely embargo the Empire. This, in turn, led to a massive revolt within the empire that resulted in the death of the Emperor, who had no children, a terminally ill wife, and was the last of the royal line. With no leader, an already poor economy, and the complete lack foreign aid, the first Ayan Empire collapsed. The absence of the Ayans for trade eventually led to the complete collapse of the other eastern empires—the Xyaeki State and the Kingdom of Naalna—and the decline of the Harrodizaki Empire in Semaru.
	“The chaos extended far beyond the domain of the races of men. Presumably due to the absence of the Creator’s supervision, nature itself became unbalanced: animals grew abnormally aggressive, the weather and seasons destabilized, and forests like the Miir spread and overgrew entire cities.
	“It was thought that Yjaru would cease to exist. But, this was not the case. As it turned out, the Creator had designed a failsafe to preserve stability. Over the course of a decade, appearing amongst all races and classes, all areas and cultures, people were born possessing the gift of harnessing the balance of men and nature. These were known the Druids, and the event would be known as the druidalam, ‘coming of the Druids,’ in the standard speech.  The Druids held an inert gift for understanding the workings of nature, and a unique affinity for green mana, or life magic. These Druids rallied together, setting aside all prejudices, and became one, restabilizing the crumbling nations and calming the forces of nature. After nearly forty years, these people brought an end to the Unraveling.
	The Druids were hailed as heroes, and many obtained positions of power. The Druidic Renaissance, a golden age, dawned, and the known world prospered, a prosperity that would have lasted were it not for a single child, all our knowledge of whom is written in that book of mine you found.
	“The name of this child is not known to me, though I do know his story. The youngest of four brothers in a family of peasants somewhere in Sa’aru, born the year after the Black March, he dreamed of one day obtaining greatness. Yet, as it turned out, all three other brothers obtained some degree of success, whilst the fourth child led an insignificant and turbulent life, fueled by a deep-seated belief that the world owed him something. His failure after failure at essentially every opportunity to improve himself with which he was presented only heightened his lust for power. Unfortunately for Yjaru, the boy’s one talent turned out to be magic. After the events that would transpire, the Druids would come to know him as hu Zevnaton. In standard speech: the ruler-of-darkness.
	“At age sixteen, Zevnaton learned of the existence of a powerful black mage who sought an apprentice to aid in a project of his. Performing a foul ritual, Zevnaton made contact with this mage. They met, and the mage told Zevnaton that he could become the new god, that he could ascend to the vacant throne and ensure the return and continuation of order across the globe. The mage tought Zevnaton a black technique that would allow him to tear the soul from his enemies and absorb any magical abilities they possessed. Zevnaton graciously accepted this gift on the condition that he use it to kill one of the mage’s enemies, a pyromancer from the area in the south that is now Keth, which he did, gaining a gigantic array of abilities involving fire-transformation magic. His appetite had only just been whetted by his acquisition of this power, and so he returned to the black mage and killed him, stealing his soul and acquiring access to black magic without the drawbacks that come with obtaining it normally. After this, he went to amass followers, and to realize the vision the black mage had had of him ascending to godhood. Eventually, he found himself in the court of the reclusive Fuuren Empire. Still ashamed from their defeat in a war in the prior century, Zevnaton petitioned their aid with the promise that they would become his chosen people upon his ascension. After a display of his power, the Fuur accepted. Five years after the unraveling ended, he unleashed his armies upon a still recovering world, with brutal efficiency. Within two years, the whole of Semaru was under his control. Any hope of this man being a benevolent ruler was quickly extinguished, as his governors ruled with an iron fist, using slavery and black magic to force the cooperation of those in their domain. Were it not for the Druids, it is undoubtable he would have conquered the entire world. While his ships sailed for the Ayan Empire, the Druids returned from their now comfortable lives and united against Zevnaton. It was a bloody conflict, and the Druids sacrificed everything to halt his march, and they succeeded, barely. In the end, only ten druids of the over three thousand that they had started with lived. Out of the thousands of Druids who came to fight, only ten were known to survive. Six of them returned to positions of power. Three of them settled down and lived as average folk. The last one…” Zace trailed off. Nathaniel cut in:
	“The last one what?”
	“Was me,” Zace finished. Claio burst into laughter. 
	“You? You expect us to believe you were alive what, three thousand years ago?”
	“Yes,” Zace asserted, his face showing no evidence of lying. Claio grew more serious.
	“How?” 
	“A side-effect of having some power over the forces of life is that Druids inherently live a very, very long time. Not forever, but a long time nonetheless.”
	“Then how old are you?” Seraila asked.
	“I stopped counting a while ago. What’s the year?”
	“Four-thousand, five hundred and ninety-five.”
	“Seeing as this is the tenth month, that makes me… two thousand and seventy-six.”
	“Two thousand seventy-six!” Claio exclaimed.
	“What have you been doing for all that time?” Nathaniel asked. Zace sat back in his chair.
	“Preparing. For the return. Of the Druids or Zevnaton. In truth, Zevnaton was never slain, only banished, and I was certain he’d return at one point, and events that have transpired over the past decade are appearing to prove my suspicions. Fuuren appearing here on Sa’aru indicate that the Fuuren Empire has “woken up,” if you will. I’ve had my eye on Andus for a while. Based on his reaction to rather harmless looking druidic text you showed him, I think it is a safe assumption that he is involved with Zevnaton’s following. As for the Druids, I am the only one of the ten survivors who still lives, and no new Druids have been born since that battle. Until now, it seems. You, Nathaniel, have no doubt noticed that you are the only one that sees anything on the pages of this book. The drawings are made in an ink only visible to those with Druidic mana.”
	Nathaniel sat still for a long moment.
	“So I’m a druid.”
	“Yes, you are a druid. There is no doubt.”
	No one said anything for a long time. Everyone knew the Druids. They were still legends known to everyone today, despite their time having long passed. They were the heroes in the children’s tales they’d all heard in their youth. They had seemed to be a dream to them. But to be one? It was unthinkable. Eventually, Nathaniel returned to the moment from the depths of his mind.
	“What does this mean?” He asked, slowly.
	“I can’t be sure. Perhaps you are the first of a new Druidalam. Perhaps something entirely different will transpire this time. Regardless, it is imperative we begin the process of awakening your potential as a Druid at once, as appearance of a Druid can only mean that the state of the world hangs in the balance. Are you willing to begin training? Druidic training is difficult, but once your powers awaken, I assure you it will have been worth it.
	“I’m ready.”
	“Very good. We start tomorrow morning, early. Make yourselves at home here, and rest well this night.”



	At seven the following morning Nathaniel stood with Zace at the center of the circular ring. Seraila and Claio had left to explore Zhara, as their presence would do nothing but hinder Nathaniel’s training. Zace spoke:
	“Nathaniel, the beginning of your training as a Druid begins here. Before we start, I must inform you of a few very important things. The powers you obtain as a Druid will undoubtedly rival those of a master mage. That said, the power, if misused, could be unleashed with devastating effect on the world or even yourself. Your life as a druid will be stressful, depending heavily on the events in the days to come. Most importantly, the first stage of training is incredibly strenuous, and if not approached with care, may lead to your death. Are you prepared to continue, with these things in mind?” Nathaniel paused a short moment. 
	“I am ready.”
	“Good. As a druid, you have access to unparalleled survivability and defensive capabilities in combat. A druid can run completely bare into a battlefield and take more hits than someone in a full suit of battle armor. Obviously you have to work to get to this level, starting with basic control of mana. Watch me.
	Zace lifted up one hand, and Nathaniel fixated on it.
To start, I’m going to excite your soul,” he said, taking care to make his words very clear. “This will allow the mana built up inside you to flow freely. The sensation will be quite shocking at first, but with a little effort you should be able to control it within a few minutes. I am here to intervene should anything go seriously wrong. Now, reach out your hands.” Nathaniel did so. Zace grabbed Nathaniel's wrists, and a light draft began emanating from him. Suddenly, a blast of wind erupted from Nathaniel. He stepped back in surprise, and Zace’s expression grew incredibly serious.
	“Be calm,” he commanded. “Feel the energy flowing through you. They will respond to your will. Try to manipulate them.”
	Nathaniel unleashed a great yell of exertion as the green energy spewing and the winds flowing from him became less spontaneous and more condensed, controlled. About Nathaniel formed a smooth, human-shaped bubble of the same transparent green that had constituted the field Zace had put around the Fuuren earlier.
	“Incredible,” said Zace. “No, beyond incredible, impossible.”
	“What?” Nathaniel asked, confused.
	“How did you do that so quickly? That level of control took me at least a month, and I was considered a fast learner.”
	“I don’t know, I just-”
	“It’s irrelevant. Should you keep progressing at this rate, you’ll become a Master Druid within months… Now, try and seal the flow. Imagine that in this state your soul is open. You must close it.”
	“Don’t you think that’s a little easier said than done?”
	“Yes, but there isn’t much more explanation I can give you. You have to discover this for yourself,” Zace said, pausing for a moment after.  “And by the way, if you can’t stop the flow, you’ll die.”
	“I’m sorry, what?”
	“I won’t let that happen here. I can stop it myself if it becomes necessary. But you must learn to control your mana. Do not be dissuaded by the difficulty of this. Controlling the full power of Druidic mana as you are is immensely more difficult than the control of standard mana as mages do. Most mages could never accomplish what you are setting out to do.”
	“Reassuring?”
	“Take it how you like.”
	“Right.”
	Nathaniel’s mind fell into a deep focus. For the first time, he became aware of his soul, how it filled his body, how its energy flowed upward, like bubbles in a pot of boiling water. He felt its ebb and flow, and how it reacted to his will. Calming his mind, he pressed the escaping energies back down, and held it there. Soon, he had made it so that no energy was able to escape. Any resistance the energy had put up subsided. He reopened his mind and found that the energies no longer flowed from him.
	“Unbelievable. Absolutely unbelievable,” Zace exclaimed, seemingly breathless. “The first showing I could rub off as simply impressive, but to do it consecutively… absolutely impossible… unless you’re…” Zace drifted into thought.
	“Unless I’m what?” Asked Nathaniel, demandingly.
	“Nothing,” he said, lost in thought. He drew a knife from under his cloak, and dragged the blade through the flesh of his palm. Nathaniel leaned back, shocked.
	“What’d you do that for?” He asked. Zace held up his palm. Before Nathaniel’s eyes, the wound began to shrink and the bleeding abated.
	“This is one of the most valuable perks of Druidism in combat. Once you are significantly familiar with how to use Druidic mana, you will be able to heal minor wounds like this almost without thinking. I want you to practice this,” Zace said, handing him the knife. “Try it. Make a small cut with this, and try to heal it. At the rate you’ve been progressing, you should have no problem. I need to go somewhere. I should be back within an hour or two. Don’t be stupid with the blade and you’ll be fine.”
From a chest on one of the many shelves, Zace retrieved a green gem. He moved to the center of the room, and clenched his hand tightly around the gem. Green lights began to swirl around him, steadily increasing in speed. Suddenly, the speed increased to a degree that it emanated a powerful gust of wind. Nathaniel scrambled to a wall and shielded his face. There was a bright flash, and when Nathaniel uncovered his eyes, Zace was gone.
//IV
The Elder Mountain, Ayan Empire, Sa’aru

Far to the North, near the summit of the tallest mountain in the Ayan Empire, an equivalent flash occurred, leaving Zace behind on top of a long, decrepit, stone staircase that descended down the mountain. He was enveloped in an agonizingly frigid blizzard that burned that burned the exposed skin he had. The density of the storm made visibility incredibly low. Still, Zace could just barely make out the stone temple in front of him. He approached it, bringing its great iron doors clearly into his view. The doors had no knob or handle, but instead a circle with the imprint of a hand in the cleavage. Zace placed his hand on the imprint, and promptly released some energy into it. Green runes on the rim of the circle lit up as it began to rotate in place, and from it, a tree-like, green, swirling pattern began to spread across the face of the great doors. Once their whole surface was covered, the doors slowly creaked open. Zace entered the great stone hall, conjuring an green orb for light.
	The interior of the room was nearly as decrepit and disorderly as the exterior. In the center sat a circular stone table. Cobwebs were strung about the many bookcases lining the walls. There were several rotting wooden doors, their nails, hinges, and handles coated in thick rust. Zace walked to the table in the center of the room. 
	“Zace,” a deep voice came. Its tone was of a certain sternness, but devoid of any strong emotion, in a way that warranted great respect. Zace turned to face the source of the voice. Standing in the doorway was a man wearing a light brown hooded robe. All that was visible was some of his black hair and his face. His face carried the same sternness as his voice, also seemingly emotionless. His eyes were entirely white, with no irises or pupils.
        	“Seamus,” Zace said, surprised. “When did you get here? I didn’t hear the door.”
        	“I was in before you.”
        	“Alright. And what brought you here?”
        	“Same reason as you, I assume. How did you intend to get in without me?”
        	“I kept the key.”
        	“I see.”
        	The two ceased their conversation and walked to the table.
        	“Now that you’re here, I guess the key’s unnecessary,” Zace said. Seamus nodded and placed his hands on the table. A similar pattern to the one on the door spread about the table, then it rotated and descended down an uncovered cylindrical shaft. Rectangular stones extended out from the walls to form a great spiral staircase down the shaft. Seamus went first.
        	“It’s been a long time since I was down here,” Zace said.
        	“That is probably a good thing,” responded Seamus.
        	“Where’ve you been?”
        	“What do you mean?”
        	“Where’ve you been for three thousand years? You seem to spend most of your time being… gone. You disappear after the Black March, appear for a month to stop Zevnaton’s assault, and then disappear for another 3,000 years before showing up now.”
        	“To you I have only appeared twice. I’ve been wandering. Appearing to certain peoples when I feel it is necessary.”
        	“Seamus the Wanderer, hm?”
        	“If that is what you wish to call me.”
        	The two continued down the stairs.
        	“Your new apprentice, I have seen him.”
        	“What? When?”
        	“Deace, a town in the north of the Naaln Viceroyalty, a few days before he came to you. I was tracking a few troubling forces I felt. The first was an energy surge not unlike those in the druidalam. The second was the mana of a powerful Fuuren, one of Zevnaton’s higher-ups and one of the very few with free will. It was while tracking this Fuuren that I first saw your apprentice. My appearance at the scene is likely the only reason he is alive. These forces all came from the area of Deace, so I went there to investigate. I found him, and when I did I immediately knew what he was. You know too, do you not?”
        	“I had guessed so.”
        	The two reached the bottom. It was almost completely black, so Seamus lit the torches lining the walls. 
“What is his name?” Seamus asked.
“Nathaniel.”
In the center of the floor stood a podium, with several runes written all over its surface: A magic seal. Seamus touched his hand to the top of the podium. The runes turned blue, and the lines of characters began slowly to contract.
The top of the podium opened, revealing a gleaming silver sword with a spherical green gem in the guard. The sword shined brilliantly, even in the dim light of this room. Its shape was the perfect harmony of art and practicality It contained nothing unnecessary, but everything it had was perfect. Seamus removed the sword, holding the hilt with his left hand and feeling the blade with his right.
“It’s still strange seeing Girindar reforged,” Zace said.
	“Because you saw Allaia fight with it after it was made into a pair of daggers, for the most part,” Seamus said. “I will make the preparations. You must return to him and ensure he learns all you can teach him. I will find you again when the time is right.”
     “I will.”
 
 
 
        	Zace once again clenched the gem, summoning the same lights and bringing him back to the chamber that was his home. This time, he found the room much different than when he parted. Out of cracks in the walls, vines, grasses, and weeds had sprouted and taken over the room, and much of the furniture had seemingly been thrown across the room. Dozens of books had been laid out around the room open to pages stuffed with notes. In tattered clothes soaked with dirt and sweat, Nathaniel sat in the center of the room. He turned to look at Zace.
	“My bad?”
//V
Zhara, Ayan Empire, Sa’aru
 
        	Nathaniel’s left arm was covered in glowing green marks the patterns on the door and table in the mountain temple. Faintly, it seemed they hummed. Zace stood at the bottom of the now vine-coated stairs, dumbfounded.
        	“How did you do that?” he said, pointing at the arm.
	“I was practicing, like you said,” Nathaniel replied, sounding a bit unsure himself. “I figured out how to release and stop the flow with some ease. The marks appeared on their own, I think. I tried looking through some of the books you had,” he gestured to the tables, “but I couldn’t find anything on them.”
“This is incredible. I had planned for you maybe to get this far in months—years even. And the markings, do you have any idea what those are?”
Nathaniel looked down at his hand. “No.”
“The markings of the Awakened. Only four people in the history of the world have ever been able to Awaken—well, five actually, but he’s not strictly a person—and you just became the sixth with almost no effort whatsoever.”
“Awaken?”
“I can’t really tell you what it is because I honestly don’t know. My understanding of it is that it’s the mastery of mana to a such degree that it causes magic energy from the environment to flow through you as though it were your own. This unison of your soul and the energies of the world around you allow for an explosion of power. What is interesting, however, is that the markings have appeared only on your arm. The marks of the other awakened covered their whole bodies. Perhaps this awakening is some kind of ‘incomplete’ form.”
“I don’t even know how I did it in the first place,” Nathaniel said. Zace thought on this for a while, scrutinizing the arm.
“Interesting,” he mused. “Perhaps awakening is an inherent ability of yours, and you simply haven’t used it enough to have full control.”
        	“What do I do now?”
        	“I’m not sure. I could ha—”
        	A violent shake of the ground threw them off balance, followed immediately the ringing of deep, loud bells.
        	“The alarm?” Zace said, eyes widening. “We need to get out of here!”
        	With haste, the two sprinted up the stairs and through the door. The sky was hidden behind a dark grey veil and their nostrils filled with the thick stench of smoke and ash.
        	“Nathan!” Seraila exclaimed, panting. “They’re here—the soldiers in black. We need to get out of the city!”       	
“They’ll have the main gates covered,” Claio said, hurriedly, “but I know another way out of the city. The Meáltakh use it to get in and out stealthily. It’s not the most… er, hygienic, but it’s probably our best shot.”
        	“Excellent, Claio,” Zace said, nodding and glancing at the other three. “Alright, let’s go!”
 

 
        	The group weaved through the town on Claio’s lead, taking alleys and less-used roads to avoid the swordsmen and battlemages running rampant throughout the city. Eventually, Claio held out his hand to stop the party. In the road in front of them was an iron manhole cover.
        	“It’s here,” Claio said. 
        	“You’re having us escape the city through a sewer?” asked Seraila, slightly disgusted.
        	“Look, ghostie, you’ve got two choices. One: You die a second death at the hands of a ruthless army of marauding battlemages, or Two: You live, but have to take a bath sometime in the near future.”
        	“Ghostie?”
        	“Well?”
        	“Fine.”
        	Claio removed the cover and followed the rest of the party as they dropped down one-by-one, each fall accompanied by a deep sploosh. The party’s feet sloshed as they trudged forward in the ankle-deep sewer-water. There was no light, so Claio pulled and lit a match from a pocket in his jacket. A dark algae (or at least they hoped it was algae) grew all around the cylindrical passage, but the repulsiveness of that paled in comparison to the smell of rot permeating through the air. Seraila let out a small gag.
        	“I’m better at resisting physical stimuli,” Nathaniel snarked to Seraila.
        	“Shut up.”
        	The party trudged forward, the sounds of the chaos above muffled by the stone and splashing but still clearly audible.
        	“How far?” asked Seraila.
        	“Too far to hold your breath,” Claio said, visibly disgruntled himself. The party sloshed a ways further down the tunnel.
        	“Where will we go once we get out?” Asked Nathaniel.
        	“We need to get somewhere out of the way, unsuspecting,” Zace said.
        	“I know a place,” Claio said. “It’s a long way away, deep in the Miir on the west-coast side. It’s a town called Murk. It’s the a hamlet for people who want to live quietly but can’t do so in mainstream society due to criminal pasts or other taboo bits of personal history.”
        	“Murk? I’ve heard it in passing. Isn’t it in a marshland? You’re moving us out of a sewer and into a swamp?” asked Seraila, annoyed. 
        	“It’s not that bad. Mostly. And we don’t seem to have any other ideas, do we?”
        	“Point taken.”
        	After enduring the grotesque conditions in the sewer for around five minutes they emerged into a filth-ridden pond just outside the walls.
	“I don’t even wanna know what I just stepped on,” Nathaniel said, waist deep in what optimistically was about half water. They all clambered out of the pool as fast as they could. 
“We’re not supposed to walk across the whole continent, are we?” Seraila asked.
“No, I’ve a friend from my days in the Mealtah. She helped me escape years back, and still helps me out when I need it. She lives in a little farm house not far from here. She’ll give us a ride.” 
	They followed Claio under cover of the smoke-made darkness through the fields that surrounded the burning city. After a short while they came up to a large wooden shack. Claio knocked.
	“Who?” A voice asked from within.
	“Three,” Claio said.
	The door opened. An older elvish woman stood in the doorway.
	“I’ve’n’t seen you in a while,” she said. She glanced towards the city. “That your doing?”
	“Not technically,” Claio said, “but we need to get across the continent. Near Murk, ideally.”
	“I can take you there, I’ve invested too much in keeping you alive to stop now. Give me twenty minutes.”
The woman went into her house and came out after about half that time. From out of a shed next to the shack she pulled a cart, then from an enclosure retrieved three brown horses, which she harnessed to the cart. She ushered the four in back, and they quickly were moving westward.
“Your grandfather’s getting worse,” the woman said.
“How worse?”
“More unstable. He’s been receiving a lot of strange visitors. And he’s been pulling up a lot of intelligence on the royal court’s higher-ups. I’m doing my best to keep him in check, but I can only do so for so long.”
Neither said anything.
“Do you still have it?” She asked. Claio patted his chest.
“I do.”
“Good. It’ll be invaluable one day soon, I think.”
Claio stared blankly into the distance.
“Claio?” Zace asked.
“Don’t worry about it,” Claio said. “It doesn’t relate to you. If that changes, I’ll be sure to tell you. For now, I need some time to think.”


 
        	Even with the horse-drawn carriage, the journey to the west coast took five days. The elvish woman dropped the party off at the edge of the Miir just before noon, and they trekked through the dense forest for several hours after until the town, lit a dim orange by the evening light, came into view amidst the dark, vine-strangled trees. Despite the location, the town itself was nice enough; of well-built wooden houses spaced around heavily trodden roads lit by lamplight. 
        	“About time. Let’s get to the local tavern,” said Claio. The party moved to the center of town, also eager to eat some food that hadn’t sat in a sack for nine days. The composition of the tavern was not much different from the rest of the buildings in town, but it was one of the only multi-story buildings. 
        	“Fuck off, ass-hat!” a drunken man exclaimed as the party entered. 
        	“My, aren’t we a bit feisty today?” said another man, who looked to be half-Ayan. He was dressed in absurdly fine black clothing, the kind of apparel that Nathaniel noted one would see on the Viceroy himself back in Naal.
        	The drunkard stood up from his chair. “Get over here!”
        	The man grinned slightly, which annoyed the drunken one.
        	“What‘re you smiling about? Eh?”
        	The man made eye contact with the drunk, then disappeared completely. Pandemonium erupted throughout the tavern. 
	“Buggered off, did he?” said the drunk, fervorously scanning the room. A mug fell off a table across the bar.
	“Over there! I’m’a tear him to shreds!” he screamed, darting off toward where the mug fell. Two others grabbed him and held him still.
	“Calm down, George, he’s trying to get you riled up,” one of them said. After a few moments of pointless struggle, the drunken one calmed down. “Siddown,” the other one said again. Reluctantly, George did as he was told.
	A most glorious fart filled the tavern with ground-shaking ferocity. 
	“Shit, George!” one of his drinking buddies blurted as the entire tavern’s gaze fixated on him.
	“What the hell?” Claio half said, half asked. After a moment, the vanished man reappeared in front of the party.
	“A whoopee cushion!” he blurted. “Comedy at its finest, I tell you!” None of the party said anything, instead just staring. The man noticed this. “I don’t believe I’ve seen you around here before. Who are you, what brings you here?” he asked. For a moment the party still just stared, perplexed. Nathaniel broke the silence.
	“I’m Nathaniel. This is Seraila, Claio, and Zace. We’re here on… uh, personal business.”
	“Ah, of course! I am Harold,” the man replied. 
	“You’re a Fae?” Seraila inquired.
“Impressive, Miss Seraila! Not many know of the Fae, though I guess you’d’ve had plenty of time in the Void to garner such knowledge.”
	“You know what I am?”
	“Of course! We Fae have a very acute perception of magical energies, and your mana contains the distinct markers of the undead.” He paused, looking at Nathaniel for a time. “I’ve not felt mana like yours before. I could feel it from miles away… What are you?” 
	Nathaniel looked to Zace and was met with a shake of the head. “I can’t say,” Nathaniel said. 
	“You have a similar aura about you,” Harold said, looking to Zace. “Both of yours feel—Oh. Fascinating. I’d never put two and two together until now.”
	“What?” Nathaniel asked, guarded.
	“I’ve noticed...strange sensations throughout the world itself, and I feel those same sensations coming from the both of you. You need not say anymore. I imagine you are being pursued. I know somewhere safe, and there are Fae there that must see you.”
	“Where?” Zace asked.
	“The Northeastern Circle of Fae. My circle. I will take you in the morning, it is too dark now.” He looked around quickly. “I have a room, it is the second on the left.”



	The party congregated in Harold’s room, and there they sat for an hour before Harold himself actually joined them. When he did, his demeanor had become much more serious than it had previously been. 
	“Nathaniel. Zace. You two. I must inform you of some details of the journey we’ll be taking tomorrow. I mentioned we would be going to the Circle of Fae, which we will, but… we need to find it first.”
	“Don’t Fae inherently know where their circle is at all times?” Seraila asked, who knew this for fact.
	“Members of a circle do, yes. I’m more of an… associate, if you like. As for actually finding the circle, I have a rather good friend that will point us in the right direction. Another Fae. Ellie’s her name. She rather fortuitously happens to be in these woods at the moment. We can find her tomorrow. For now, it would be wise for all of you to stay in this room. If you need food or drink, I can get it for you. Any questions?”
	“What kind of Fae is Ellie?” Asked Seraila.
	“A fine question. Ellie is a zev-mortayus. In your tongue: “Shadow-Killer.” She hunts and eliminates that which is a threat to the stability of Yjaru. Dark Wizards, corrupted creatures, undead, the like.”
	At the last item in that list, Seraila squirmed.
	“She won’t attack you if I ask her not to,” Harold said. Seraila relaxed a little.
	“And what are you? Your profession,” Asked Zace. “Ellie’s a zev-mortayus, what are you?” asked Zace. Harold’s face turned down.
	“They call me ‘Yankolifazh,’” he said. Seraila and Zace’s faces grew somber.
	“What did you do?” asked Seraila.
	“I didn’t do anything, really. I was just different,” replied Harold. “The Fae don’t like different. I never did anything illegal. Mostly. Nothing enough to deserve that title anyway. People are cruel, and Fae are no exception to that rule. Their ostracism of me and my oddness eventually grew to hatred, hatred that forced the hand of the council to brand me Fajyankiliizh.”
	“That’s awful,” said Zace. Claio butted in.
	“Can one of you people explain what this means to the normal people who don’t speak a language that’s been dead for two thousand years?” he said.
	“‘yankolifazh’ is a derogatory term,” said Seraila, “particularly among Fae, for iizh ul ay yankol fazh,” which means “a person who’s less than garbage.” It’s a title given to those who’ve been exiled.” Said Seraila.
	“Your acquaintance, Ellie. She knows you’re an exile?” Asked Zace.
	“Yes. We were friends before I was named Yankolifazh. She doesn’t care, because we are both different in the same way, though she was always better at hiding that fact than I was.”
	“Exile seems an overly cruel punishment for oddness,” said Nathaniel.
	“It is the nature of the Fae. My kind were made to preserve order, and they carry out that purpose with an all-encompassing Zeal. “Oddness” doesn’t quite fit in the utopia they desire. There’s a saying: “iizh ul tua nrash te o ul karish nrash losh.” In the common tongue: ‘a faery without order is like a cart without wheels.’ It’s not so bad. Outside the circle, that mindset isn’t so prevalent, at least in the east. I wasn’t really much for circle life anyway. Nonetheless, as an outcast I don’t have the power to divine the current location of the circle. I suggest you all get some sleep. We’ll be heading out early.”
Harold left the room, looking upset. The party remained mostly silent and was soon sleeping.
//VI
Murk, Shyaekki Miir, Sa’aru

	The sun had barely breached the horizon when Harold woke the party.
Claio snapped awake as soon as the doorknob turned.
	“Morning,” said Harold, leaning in. “I need you to all to be outside in thirty minutes. I’ll be waiting out front.” Nathaniel and Zace swiftly woke and prepared themselves for the journey. Seraila, as banshees don’t sleep, was already prepared, and had been leaning against the far wall of the room. The party, once ready, proceeded downstairs and out the front door, to where Harold was waiting. 
“Ellie is in the northwestern part of these woods. We can get relatively close to where she’s camped by following the main road. Shouldn't be much more than an hour’s walk. Let's head off.” He started down the road with the party following close behind him.
“Harold?” Nathaniel asked. “Ellie’s a shadow-killer, which means she hunts corrupted creatures and practitioners of black magic, right?”
“Yes, that's right.”
“Should we be concerned that whatever she’s hunting out here might be dangerous?”
“It’s possible,” he said, considering this himself. “Though she’s more than capable of handling whatever it might be. I wouldn't worry yourselves. We five make a pretty strong crew, from the looks of it. Two druids, a banshee, a dashing rogue of a Fae, and… Claio.” Claio’s face displayed a jolt of unamusement.
“I was an assassin, bud,” he said.
“Oh, of course you were. And I was the high priest of Ma’ual!” responded Harold, dripping with sarcasm. Claio flashed his blades, and Harold’s face couldn't hide that he was slightly impressed.
“Hm. Indeed. Those are some fine blades. Neo-Shyaekki craftsmanship, no? I should like to spar against them at some point,” he said.
“You’re on,” Claio said, smiling. Zace looked at Harold. 
“You're a swordsman?”
“I am!” responded Harold with a hint of passion. He pulled open one side of his jacket, revealing a shortblade and dagger strapped to the inside. Since I was young, I've had both an aptitude and passion for daggers, wakizashis and other shortblades,” 
“Where would a Northern Fae get access to a southern weapon like a wakizashi?”
“My father. He was down in the south a long time ago. He was always fond of bringing bits of foreign culture back. That time he came back with a considerable selection of Janaangese weaponry.” 
“Interesting. I spent some time in Janaang myself while fighting in the Druidic War. A nice place. Or it was, two-thousand years ago. It was barely a country back then. No idea what it’s like now.”
The party continued with nothing but more smalltalk, the walk proving uneventful save for Seraila about through spotting a bear about halfway through.
Eventually, Harold stopped the party. “Here,” he said, leading the party off the trail. The canopy was especially dense here, greatly limiting the sunlight that came through. In the distance, despite the darkness, the party could make out several tents surrounding what appeared to be magefire in a pit. No one seemed to be present. 
“Stop.”
 Several people wearing dark but not black leather and chainmail emerged from behind trees, pointing drawn bows.
“Who are you?” asked one, likely the leader.
“I’m Harold. You remember me, don't you Jun’n?”
“Oh, it’s you,” said Jun’n. “What do you want? Are you here for Ellie?” Judging by the tone of his voice, was no fan of Harold's.
“Yes, is she-” 
“Harold!” cried a voice coming from the camp, excitedly. From behind Jun’n, another Fae stepped out. Ellie.
“Why are pointing your arrows at him? Stand down!” she demanded, angrily. The rest of the Fae lowered their arrows.
“We can't be too careful in our line of work, Ellie.” said Jun’n.
“You need to learn to calm yourself, Jun’n.” said Ellie, walking past Jun’n.
“Zhalmnu,” he muttered.
“I heard that,” she responded, without turning around. She walked up to Harold.
“Harold, I haven't seen you in a year! How are you?”
  	“Quite well, Ellie, quite well,” said Harold. “And yourself?”
“Pretty good,” replied Ellie. “What brings you out here?”
“I need to find the circle. This young man,” he lowers to a whisper, “he is a druid.”
“I see,” Ellie said. She eyed Nathaniel, then covered her eyes with her hands. With incredible speed, she brought her hand away from her face, her eyes shining a piercing blue. She stared hard at Nathaniel, circling around him as a wolf corners its prey. After a full circle, her eyes returned to their normal shade. For a moment, she simply thought silently.
“I see what you mean,” she said. “I’d be happy to guide you to the circle, but are you sure you want to go back, Harold?” she asked. Harold was silent for a moment.
“Yes, I would like to see the place again.”
“And your father?”
“I doubt we’ll run into him.” Ellie looked into Harold’s eyes.
“Harold, your father is a member of the circle now.” Harold was silent for a moment.
“I want to go.”
“Alright,” Ellie said. She turned to Jun’n.
“Leave us,” she said.
“Fine,” replied Jun’n, spitefully. “Let’s go, men.” The rest of the Fae left.
“Druid,” Ellie said to Nathaniel. “I will take you and your companions to the circle. But first, I need to finish something here. You may be able to help. I have reason to believe this thing we’ve found may be tied with your coming. I’ll show you, come.”
Ellie led the party through the camp and about five minutes into the woods. She then gestured for the party to stop. Just ahead, life appeared to end. Surrounded on all sides by the dark, dense vegetation of this part of the Miir was a barren circle, the soil cracked and dry as though it hadn’t tasted water for a hundred years. In its center sat a grotesque, black, pulsating pod.
“What is it?” asked Seraila.
“We don't know. Anything that touches it dies. All of the small animals in this area of the wood have been dying out, and many trees have been seen losing their leaves prematurely. Our investigation revealed this... thing. We think that getting rid of it will solve the problems. But we can't touch it, and our arrows dissolve upon contact with it.”
“Have you tried magic?” asked Seraila.
“Magic arrows,” replied Ellie.
“May I try?” 
“Sure, but be careful.”
Seraila motioned for everyone to stand back, and they did so. Seraila removed her poncho, revealing a slightly-less-weathered white short-sleeved shirt. She formed her right hand into a fist, and a white light began to glow about it. This light intensified, becoming erratic and shrilling out into the air. The light peaked, with a blinding glare and the sound of a raging storm. With a yell, Seraila thrust her fist forward, shooting a visible, ear-shattering shockwave towards the pod. There came a new blinding flash and wave of force, knocking everyone down. When the dust had cleared, they all stood and looked to the impact site. The pod was still there, in perfect condition, but the ground around it had been utterly obliterated.
“Damn it,” said Seraila, redonning her poncho. Harold had hidden behind a tree, and was crawling out. Claio and Nathaniel stood still in shock. Ellie was laughing nervously. Zace simply stood, fixated on the pod.
“I think I can get rid of it,” said Zace.
“You can? I was going to have the druid try,” asked Ellie.
“I am also a druid.”
“There are two?”
“Not exactly. I’m the last survivor of the first druidalam.”
“Oh, forgive me. I didn't know there were any left. I took you for a Mage.”
“Don't worry about it. Nathaniel, follow me,” said Zace. Zace enveloped himself in druidic mana and walked into the circle around the pod. The energy around him became gradually more agitated the closer he walked to the pod. Nathaniel, after a small bit of effort, enveloped himself as well, then entered the circle with Zace. Zace signalled for Nathaniel to stay still, then extending his hand and reaching to touch the pod. As his middle finger made contact, his entire energy field erupted into agitation. Zace started grunting, evidently in pain, attempting to maintain the field. His energy-shrouded hand actually cut into the pod—though very slowly, due to the repulsive force. Zace let out one final grunt, attempting to shove his hand farther into the pod, but was thrown backwards, out of the circle. Landing on his back, he slowly struggled to stand back up. There was now a visible gash in the surface of the pod, out of which began to ooze a dark pus.
“Remind me not to arm-wrestle you,” said Claio, now feeling a little insecure about his own abilities. He touched something under his jacket, but brought his hand back down.
“Fascinating,” said Ellie.
Zace had just pulled himself off the ground. Besides some scratches, he seemed to be in relatively good condition.
“Nathaniel,” he said, “you try.” Nathaniel had been standing on the edge of the circle around the pod.
“You just got flung off by that thing, what makes you think I could do better?” Nathaniel asked. Zace looked Nathaniel in the eye.
“Just try. I want to see something.”
Nathaniel turned to face the pod. He reinforced his field, then began to step closer to the pod. Each consecutive step became harder and harder, until it took every ounce of his strength to move even an inch onward. Eventually he came within arm’s reach of the pod. At this point, he felt like he was walking up-hill, battling against against a hurricane. Through strength of will, he extended his right arm towards the pod. A sharp pain rang through his arm. He cried out and pulled it back, falling to a knee. His whole body now felt like it was being crushed. He tried to pull himself up and fell back flat on the dirt. His jaw clenched with pain, he made a final push to get up. Feeling a surge of energy, he heaved himself onto his feet, clutching his right arm. Looking down, he saw the green markings had spread across his arm again, evidently suppressing the pain. Despite the markings, he knew he could not stay in the circle much longer. He raised his right hand, and with a grunt of exertion, he thrust his hand as far into the pod as he could. He focused all the strength he could into his hand, releasing it with a final shout. The pod detonated. From where the pod once sat, a green glow emanated in waves. As the waves traveled outwards, the barren earth in the circle became fertile once again, and the leaves of the trees that had wilted surrounding the circle returned to life. Nathaniel now kneeled on the ground in the center, breathing heavily, covered in the pus. All stared in awe.
Nathaniel returned to the group, and Seraila ran up and grabbed him by the shoulders.
“Nathan, that was amazing,” said Seraila. “How did you do that?”
“You’re cold,” he said. Seraila gave him a look. Claio tapped Nathaniel on the shoulder.
“You’re a force of nature, Nathan,” he said.
“Thanks. I think,” Nathaniel responded. Claio laughed. Zace approached the three. 
“I am honored to have been your teacher, Nathaniel. You’ll recall I told you that your life as a druid would be stressful. It seems you have more ahead of you than I could have imagined. I will tell you more later. For now, we must get to the circle. They will know the best course of action from here on out,” he said. Ellie walked up to the two.
“The circle is in a grove on a small island not far off shore. I can take you all there now,” said Ellie. 



	The party briefly returned to the Fae camp to gather some basic supplies and to borrow some horses. Once ready, they rode out of the woods and a short ways northwest, to a small port town. There, they boarded a small small galley and set to sea, sailing for twelve hours before arriving on a small, forested island. They moored the galley on an underwhelming, rickety dock, the only visible man-made structure on this island. The group disembarked and walked the length of the dock onto the grey, rocky shores.
	“Are you sure this is the right place?” asked Claio. Ellie glanced at him.
	“I’m sure. Fae of a particular circle are drawn to it naturally. It’s like… an internal compass.”
	“Harold said he didn’t know where the circle was, despite being a former member. Does the circle move?” asked Nathaniel.
	“Yeah, usually once every half-century or so,” replied Ellie.
	“Why does it?”
	“Because they can, I guess. Most Fae live a long time, and it’s good to get a change of scenery every now and then.”
	“Makes sense.”
	“The circle is in the innermost part of this island now. We’ll be there in five minutes,” Ellie finished. She led the party into the woods. Once inside, the flora and fauna became much more vibrant than what the dreary, temperate outward appearance would have one believe. Strange plants, orange-glowing mushrooms, and small, spritely creatures began to have increasing prevalence.
	“What are those?” asked Claio. This time Harold answered.
	“There are many kinds, but collectively they are known as yantua. “Little Fae” in the common language,” he said. 
	Through the vegetation, patches of simple stonework came into view. 
	“There,” Ellie said. “The Circle.” 
Here, they walked into what, aside from the assortment of Fae, seemed to be a regular small village. Harold grew visibly nervous, lowering his eyes to the ground. 
“Are you alright, Harold? You can wait at the edge, if you want,” said Ellie.
“No. I’m fine. I want to be a part of this.”
“Okay,” said Ellie, almost pitifully. The group continued more towards the center of the circle village, drawing a noticeable amount of stares and odd glances.
“Don’t mind them. Mortals are very rarely seen in the circle, you see,” said Ellie. The party continued walking forward still, when from the crowd of gawking Fae came a voice.
“Zace Yden?” it said. The voice was deep, almost stern. Zace turned in the direction of the voice.
“Lucian?” he said. From the crowd, a Fae, olive-skinned, wearing fine, dark dress clothes emerged. His hair was long and grey, and he had visible laugh-lines and wrinkles, though he didn’t seem that old. Harold shifted behind Ellie. 
“No, no, no, no” he anxiously muttered. Lucian and Zace met and gave each other a firm handshake.
“You’re alive? I had no idea,” said Lucian.
“Likewise. I’d have visited if I’d known the legendary Lord of Chains still walked the land. You’ve been here the whole time?” said Zace.
“You honor me with that title,” said Lucian, “and I have.” The two continued to exchange pleasantries for a short time. Lucian’s presence among the party seemed to draw even more stares.
“So tell me, what brings you to the circle?” Lucian asked, with the warm tone of a host.
“We came here to speak with the Circle of Fae itself. We have an urgent matter which requires their attention. This kind Fae,” he gestures to Harold, “brought us here.” Lucian and the crowd all turned to Harold, still hiding behind Ellie. All whispers in the crowd ceased. Lucian’s eyes narrowed. 
“Harold.” Harold stepped out into the open. “Father.”
“Why did you come back?” asked Lucian, with a hint of anger in his voice. “You know you aren’t welcome.”
“I had to, Father-”
“You will not call me father. I will have nothing to do with you.” Lucian turned his back and took a step away with a growing pain and anger on his face. “A failure in everything a Fae could strive for. Incomplete education. A public disturbance. A homosexual! Complete and utter refusal to marry and continue our line.” 
 The murmurs in the crowd returned. Zace turned to Lucian.
“Harold is your son?” he asked.
“He is.”
“And the Fae still abhor homosexuals, I see.”
“Just because the races of men have forgotten the proper way does not mean the Fae have!” yelled Lucian. “I thought one who fought alongside the creator himself would have more sense than to forsake his will.”
“He never said anything against homosexuality.”
“It is clear it was not his intention.”
“Knowing him, I think it far more likely he doesn’t care.”
“You-”
“Enough!” interrupted Harold. “This is a discussion for later, Lucian. We have come to discuss a matter which precedes petty ethics.” All were quiet for a brief moment. Lucian and Zace locked eyes.
“Your son is right,” said Zace. Lucian looked down for a moment.
“Fine,” he said. “I’ll call a meeting. Meet in the building in the center of town in half an hour.”
“Thank you, Lucian,” said Zace.
“Harold,” Lucian said, turning to his son. “This had better be damned important. If not, you know the penalty for coming back without good cause.” Harold looked his father in the eye.
“I do,” he said. Lucian turned and went. Ellie put her hand on Harold's shoulder. No one spoke.



	After half an hour, the party walked up to a large wooden building in the center of the town. The door opened on its own, beckoning. Inside sat five Fae, among which was Lucian. and a blue wisp; all sitting on the far side one great c-shaped table with the opening facing the door. In front of the opening sat a chair for each member of the party.
	“Sit,” said Lucian. The party did so, with Nathaniel, Zace, and Ellie in the front three and Claio, Harold, and Seraila in the back.
	“The five fifths of the northeastern circle has convened this day to hear the concerns of Zace Yden, a veteran of the war against Zevnaton, personally vouched for by fifth Lucian, and his party, including the exile, Harold,” said the wisp, which shimmered as it spoke in its high voice. “The party may now present its concern to the council.” Zace stood.
	“Lucian,” he said. “Were you present for Allaia’s death?”
	“No,” he said. “But I am familiar with the circumstances. She had been going mad.”
	“So they say. Are you familiar with her last words?”
	“Goremno iidey. Zhuredirey hu Zevnaton, yi hererrey ul naal druidi, ul druidi nrash ul druidalam, im delis, yes.”
“Recent events have caused me to believe her words may not have been a product of her madness,” Zace said, rising. “I present the one she spoke of with her last words: Nathaniel, the Druid of no Druidalam.” Lucian sat forward. 
“A Druid not of a Druidalam. Step forward,” he said, watching Nathaniel. Nathaniel stood from his chair. “Zace claims you are a druid. Do you make the same claim?”
“I do,” Nathaniel said. The wisp brightly shimmered briefly.
“I believe him. I can feel the druidic mana in him,” it said. The Fae looked to the rest of the fifths.
“I as well. Even without using my sight-of-god, I can feel it,” he said.
“We all can, Toaan,” said Lucian, “I don’t think there is any doubt that this one is as he claims. We cannot be certain that there will be no true druidalam, or if Nathaniel is merely the first of the second and equivalent to Allaia in terms of significance. Regardless, a new Druid has been revealed, undeniably an omen of coming disaster. The question is what to do with this information, and with the druid himself.”
“I understand your hesitation to believe the prophecy of a dying madwoman. I wouldn’t either, had I not witnessed Nathaniel’s abilities firsthand. He mastered all novice-level druidic techniques within a few hours. Normally it takes months. Mere hours after that, he became the fifth in history to awaken,” said Zace. The grey fifth stood up.
“Incredibly unlikely,” it said, almost monotonously. “Awakening is the most difficult magical ability ever attained by anyone other than the creator himself. The creator, Zevnaton, Allaia, and a founder of the Fuuren empire are the only ones recorded to have done this. I cannot take as gospel that this unknown man, scarcely an adult, is already capable of this feat, not without seeing it myself.” Lucian nodded.
“Khiir has a point. Could you demonstrate your awakening for the circle?” Nathaniel shook his head.
“No. I don’t know how.”
“We are supposed to accept his claim that he is capable of an ability only four other people, including our god, have ever been able to perform based on naught but the claim itself?
“From what I’ve seen, I’d not recommend Nathaniel attempt to do so here, even if he could” said Zace. The winged one spoke this time. 
“Regardless of Nathaniel’s ability to awaken, we need to assess the significance of the appearance of a Druid. We cannot rule out Allaia’s prediction that the druid of no druidalam would appear to combat the return of Zevnaton. We should pinpoint where Zevnaton would return, or at least where his influence is strongest.” Lucian nodded again.
“I agree. The midwestern circle has reported that the Fuur have left their borders and begun conquering small amounts of territory from the Harrond Kingdoms to the south.”
“We have not heard from the northwestern circle, either. It is possible the Fuuren have killed them,” said Khiir.
“While the Fuur’s behavior is anomalous, we shouldn't disregard the reports here in the northeast,” said Toaan, our Shadow-hunting teams, including Ellie’s, have reported corrupted wildlife with traces of abnormally powerful black magic, and there are rumours of a particularly virulent disease spreading in a few farming villages in the north-central Ayan Empire.”
“You have a point, but we don't have a source to trace for any of those, and it would be unwise to waste the druid’s time searching for one,” said Lucian.
“Then we can't send him across the damned ocean to investigate the Fuuren Empire either.”
“What about the Harrondian researcher that sought us out some weeks ago?” asked the wisp.
“William? He left for Keth,” replied the winged one.
“The Harrondian was an expert in black magic and magic history. He could be a valuable asset. It would be faster to get the druid across the scorched expanse than across the ocean to Semaru,” said Khiir.
“Easier to get across the expanse? The air there is hot enough to boil water! How do you get someone through that?” Toaan yelled. 
“Not through, dimwit. Around. The expanse is surrounded by water. We could charter passage for the druid and his party on a ship.”
“Doubtful,” said the wisp, “all save the most expensive trade ships don’t sail to where William went this time of year. The weather is particularly hazardous now.” Ellie stood.
“The boat we used to get to this island can get them there. It won’t be comfortable by any means, but it’ll do the job.”
“Acceptable,” said Lucian. “Ellie, I’d like you to go with them, you know the south better than most of us.”
“Yes, Lucian.”
“Nathaniel,” said Lucian, “know that the circle is behind you. You should work to rally any supporters you can while you are away. The man you are looking for is a Harrondian archaeologist, historian, and ranger named William. He is an expert on black magic, and is investigating similar events to those interest you. Once in Keth, our sources in the south will help you find him. Is there anything else you want to bring to the attention of the circle?”
“No, that’ll be all,” said Zace.
“Good. Harold, I expect you to go with them. You weren’t good at much, but you always could handle your blades. Make yourself useful. Do something for our line, since you clearly won’t be adding to it.”
“I’m not doing this for you,” said Harold. Lucian’s eyes narrowed.
“The meeting of the circle is adjourned,” he said.



The party met at the edge of the village, near where they first met Lucian. Ellie was the last to join them. Behind her came a small contingent of Fae.
“These men and I will sail the ship. It’s a multiple-week voyage, and a relatively small ship. Bring your essentials. There are some shops that have a variety of necessities here should you need them.”
“We don’t have any money,” said Seraila.
“Then I suppose you’ll have to make do. Don’t worry about food and such. We have that covered. We’ll leave in two hours. We can catch up more on the boat, Harold,” Ellie said, before turning to leave.
“I’m going to go speak with Lucian. He’s my oldest living acquaintance, and I haven’t seen him in two and a half thousand years. I’ll join you on the boat when it’s time,” said Zace.
“I would like to take a look around the circle, too. I may not be entirely welcome, but it is still my home,” said Harold. The two left, leaving only Nathaniel, Seraila, and Claio. The three stood silently for a moment and watched the two leave.
“When I met you on the carriage, I never would’ve believed you if you said I’d attend a meeting with the circle of Fae discussing the impending apocalypse, then sailing halfway across the world. I thought that carriage would be taking me away from trouble,” said Claio.
“We’d probably be dead if it weren’t for you, Claio,” said Nathaniel, “without you, I doubt the attackers would have taken long enough to get to the carriage before Seraila and I were able to defend ourselves.”
“I’m always prepared. Can’t let your guard down when you’ve got my background.”
“Regardless, we’re grateful,” Seraila said. “I take it you’re coming with us to Keth?” 
“I am. I’ve told Nathan: I’ll be staying as long as I can.”
“Nathan?”
“What?” Claio responded.
“You called him ‘Nathan’”.
“Oh. I didn’t think about it. You call him that don’t you? Is there a problem with it?”
“No. Just interesting.”
“Mm-hmm. Well, I’m going to take a walk around. I hate long voyages, so I’ll be taking advantage of dry land while I can.”
“Alright. See you on the boat.”
“You, too,” Claio said. He walked into the center of the village.
“Nathan,” Seraila said, “how do you feel about all this?”
“I don’t know. I’m fine with fighting Zevnaton, with being a druid and learning from Zace. But I get the growing feeling everyone expects me to be a leader. And I don’t know if I can be that. I don’t want to be that.”
“Why?”
“I’ve always kept to myself, you know that. I like protecting people, that’s why I joined the militia back in Deace, but I’ve never had everyone depending on me. I’ve always worked with a group.”
“You have a group. Even if the others leave, I’ll stand with you.”
“You aren’t going back to the void?”
“I can’t. I left my obligation as a banshee to save you. That’s treason. If they caught me, they’d seal my soul away, or destroy it. I have nowhere else to go.”
“It’s only been a few days.”
“The group of fae who watch over the undead are very strict. There is no freedom in death. Either you walk in the abyss or are risen to serve, forever.”
“I’m glad to have you here.”
“Better be, since I can’t leave.” Seraila smiled. “I want to hear more about your life on the trip, alright?”
“Alright.”
	The two parted and explored the island. When two hours passed, Nathan, Seraila, Claio, Zace, Harold, and Ellie all gathered on the galley. They set off from here on what would be a ten day journey to the south, to the great, almost desolate desert in the central region of the continent of Sa’aru, the Scorched Expanse.

//VII
Alaan Ocean, Near the Scorched Expanse, Sa’aru

	“Damn, it’s hot. Even with the wind,” Seraila said, leaning over the bow. Next to her, Nathaniel nodded. From the center of the deck came an incessant thunking. Claio and Harold, each wielding two short yet sturdy sticks were in their thirteenth mock-duel of the voyage, each a flurry of movements.
	“You leave yourself blatantly open when you parry like that!” yelled Harold.
	“If I’m leaving myself open, why haven’t you hit me yet?” said Claio. Each glistened with sweat of exertion and heat.
	“Shut up.”
	To the left of the boat was the great, yellow expanse, not unlike the sea to the right in its scope and apparent endlessness. On the starboard side, Zace leaned against the rail. 
	“Ellie,” he said, “how long has it been now?”
	Ellie came down stairs from an elevated platform on the stern.
	“Ten days,” she said. “We might get there tomorrow if the wind keeps up. We’ve passed the border, I think.”
	“We’re going to the capitol, right?”
	“Keethe, yes.”
	A shadow crossed Zace’s face. He looked up.
	“There weren’t any clouds a minute ago, were there?”
	“I wasn’t paying attention.”
	Yet another shadow. Zace looked over the bow.
	“That definitely wasn’t there a second ago.”
	A massive conglomeration of black clouds had begun to spread rapidly, choking the light out of the heavens. It wasn’t long until the whole sky was completely blocked, casting a veil of darkness over the party. Claio and Harold stopped dueling. Zace turned around.
	“We’ve stopped moving,” he said. Nathaniel and Seraila came and joined the cluster.
	“What’s going on?” Seraila asked.
	“Hang on,” said Ellie, “Hu ovadz nrau kayi!” Her tentacles levitated and her eyes glowed. Many of the Fae sailors did the same thing. She looked around frantically. “Black magic. A lot of it.”
	“I feel it too,” said Harold.
	Zace froze. 
	“I know this feeling,” he said. “He is here.”
	“Who?” asked Ellie.
	“Zevnaton! He’s here!” Zace looked at his protegé.
	“Hide, Nathaniel!” he said, urgently. “You’re not ready for this yet, you’ll be killed!” 
	Seraila grabbed Nathaniel by the arm.
	“Below deck, quickly!” she exclaimed. They both broke into a run, followed by Claio. A massive impact rocked the ship, knocking everyone off their feet and swaying the boat heavily. Nathaniel struggled his way up, and looked toward the site of the impact. Amidst clearing, black smoke, he saw two figures donning dark robes. On the left was a familiar, gaunt man holding a dark, gnarled wooden staff: Andus Uwren. To the right stood a man still as death, the life in him only betrayed by a blink of his shadowed, red eyes. His black beard was braided to a point halfway down his chest, and he had hair of the same color down to neck-length. A flash in the clouds led to another, each bringing a crash of thunder so loud they begat waves in the ocean below.
	“Good, Andus,” said the figure on the right. Without moving his body, his head turned to where Nathaniel stood.
	“Ah. The new Druidi. An honor to meet my supposed killer.” A grin broke across the man’s face.
	“What’s your name?” he asked.
	“Nathaniel,” he responded without thought. He felt the subjugation of his will.
	“Nathaniel,” replied the man. From under his cloak, Zace pulled a bright steel mace.
	“Your fight is over here, Zevnaton,” he said. Zevnaton turned his gaze to the elder druid.
	“Ah. I remember you. That bitch-of-a-druid Allaia’s adherent. You’re the last of your kind, old man. And you’re dying. I, on the other hand, have been formed anew, and soon I will be stronger than I ever was during the war. You think you can stand against me, you wrinkled old fool?”
	“You thought yourself superior to Allaia, too, and she put you away for three thousand years.”
	“That may be true, but now she is dead and I am alive.” Zevnaton held up his left hand, and a flame roared to life within his palm. “If you are so confident, I will accept your challenge. We will see if the last druid can finish his war.”
	Zace held up his right hand to match his opponent's, and he procured a growing sphere of druidic mana. His opponent, portside, raised a second hand, and added it’s second flame to the original, creating a growing, blazing mass. With a deep roar, Zevnaton thrust his hands forward, propelling the great inferno towards Zace. With a yell of his own, Zace propelled the sphere into a dome shape in front of him. Upon collision, the flames flew upward, saving the endangered hull of the boat. Zevnaton’s eyes narrowed.
	“Andus, knock them out of the water.”
	“My lord,” he said, raising his staff. Bringing it down, he and Zevnaton were removed in a black haze. Claio, previously standing alert near the stairs to the wheel, stepped forward.
	“Where did they-”
	An impact vastly more massive than the former threw the galley up and out of the water. The boat, turning upside down as it hurled towards the shoreline, dropped its passengers midair, plunging them into the shallows. Nathaniel flailed his arms in a futile attempt to move himself. Quickly all he could see was his reflection in the surface of the water. He felt the air knocked out of him, and he gasped for air. To his surprise, his mouth did not fill with water. He saw himself move farther away from the surface, and looked towards his legs. Seraila had grabbed him. With another sudden move and burst of force, she changed direction towards the beach.
	“I have you,” she said.
	“Thanks.”
	She landed on the sand and placed Nathaniel down. The once barren beach, save for a few protruding rocks, was know covered with chunks of wreckage from the galley. Nathaniel pulled himself onto one knee.
	“The others!” he said. Seraila looked to the raging ocean.
	“They’re there.”
	Zace crawled out from under a wave, and farther back Ellie brought her head up and Harold pulled Claio up from under the water. Zace stood himself up and hobbled over to Nathan and Seraila. Just behind him, the black shape fell and revealed Andus and Zevnaton once again.
	“Nathan-” he gasped, “I’m going to hold him off. You need to get out of here. Everything I’ve done, everything we’ve done depends on it.”
	“What about you?”
	“I’m not going to make it.”
	Nathaniel looked at Seraila. The rest of the party formed behind him.
	“Go!” yelled Zace, turning to face his enemy. Nathaniel took one last look at his teacher. 
	“Follow me!” he yelled to everyone else, the turned around and took off running. A black object fell in front of them, knocking them back. The smoke cleared, revealing Andus.
	“You’ll stay there!” he yelled. He brought down his staff, spawning ten black, humanoid figures figures behind him.
	“Nathan, here!” exclaimed Claio, handing Nathaniel one of his blades. Nathaniel grabbed it and pointed it at Andus. The rest of the party drew their weapons too.
	“Foolish,” said Andus. From behind Nathaniel, Zevnaton yelled:
	“Andus, leave him! Go find the shard!” 
	Andus’ face scrunched up.
	“Fine. Minions, deal with them,” he said. He brought his staff down again and was gone. The black figures let out a shrill screech and charged at the party. Claio lunged at one with his blade and fell through.
	“What?”
	“They’re impervious to physical attacks! My arrows will work, get back!” yelled Ellie. The party, all of whom were confined to melee weapons, stole away from the creatures. Ellie, with unprecedented dexterity, began forming and loosing magic arrows at the creatures. A low bubbling noise preceded several more spawning from the ground all around the rest, trapping them.
	“Shit,” cursed Seraila.
	“Nathaniel!” yelled Zace, sprinting over. With a grunt, a wave of druidic energy scattered the creatures. He bent over to catch his breath.
	“Now, ru-”
	A bloodstained cleaver came through Zace’s chest. He feel to his knees.
	“I’ve failed,” the druid wheezed. With a crunch, the cleaver was pulled from Zace’s lifeless body, which slumped to the ground, limp. Zevnaton stood over the corpse.
	“Pathetic. Let his guard down,” he said, looking down at the body at his feet lying in a growing pool of red. His eyes moved to Nathaniel. None of the party could move. A cry of anguish from Ellie: one of the creatures had got her. It and those that had been dispersed began to reappear and walk slowly towards the party.
	“If you were anyone else, I might use you, you know,” he said, “but I will not leave a job unfinished: the last druid dies here. I think you’d have been a worthy adversary, had we not found you this quickly. How convenient it was that you walked right up to Andus and revealed yourself those two weeks ago. In honor of that possibility, I will give you something I didn’t even give Allaia: my name. The druids gave me the name “Zevnaton.” Shadow-Lord, it means. Those ancients were so creative with their names, weren’t they? In truth, my name is Morten Yol of Keth. You, Nathaniel of Naal, will die here in the nation of my birth.”
	The creatures began to make a sound that resembled growling, and began to pick up speed. Morten lifted his hand, enveloped in an increasingly agitated cloud of black.
	“Goodbye, Nathaniel.”
	Morten raised his hand straight into the air. Nathaniel felt all the energy being drained from him. He and the party fell to their knees from fatigue. A growing ringing sound became audible.
	“Hm?” muttered Morten. A light became visible on the horizon, growing quickly.
	“Damnit!”
	The light collided with Morten, sending a shockwave that destroyed the shadow creatures, yet leaving the party unharmed.
	Morten landed just within the water, and quickly pulled himself up.
	“I can’t fight you. Not yet,” he said. He clasped his hands, and wisps of shadow began to surround him. “Laru vel’u gaer nragi xa ȳyde!” he yelled. With a noise like thunder, he was gone. In the absence of the sounds of magic, the faint sound of hooves in distance became audible. Where the light hit, the spot where Morten had been, a figure in a green-brown cloak stood. It turned to the corpse of Zace.
	“I am sorry, friend,” it said. It turned around and looked at the party. The figure’s humanoid features were revealed, most noticeably its empty, white eyes behind its black hair that blew in the returning wind. That face was the last thing Nathaniel saw before his world turned to black.
	
//VIII-I
S’bar, Keth Empire, Sa’aru

	Nathaniel awoke in a room of brown stone, lit by a dim, flickering, red glow. A behemoth of a man stood over him, giving a jovial smile.
	“You’re awake!” he said, cheerfully. With some effort, Nathaniel sat up a little.
	“Where am I?” he said. The man stood up.
	“My house. The name is T’oba. Mine, not the house’s.”
	Standing up, Nathaniel was able to recognize T’oba as being of the race known as Ked, the large, beefy, olive-skinned, and relatively hairless people of Keth. T’oba himself appeared a quintessential member of his people, if a little overweight.
	“How did I get here?” asked Nathaniel.
	“Myself and Seamus—the man who rescued you from Zevnaton—brought you and the others. You all survived, with the exception of old Zace, may he rest well. The only one with any serious injuries was the Fae, but she’ll recover. The Fae is with her, and the rest are waiting outside this room. Seamus left for a moment, but he should be back any minute now.” T’oba turned around.
	“Amau, bring Nathaniel the clothes.”
	The door to the room opened and a blonde girl, no older than fourteen by the look of her, entered holding a folded stack of clothes, topped by a green cloak. She walked over to Nathaniel and placed the cloak on his bed.
	“This is the one?” she asked.
	“Yes,” said T’oba.
	“Nathaniel, this is Amau, my ward.”
	“Hey,” she said.
	“Hello,” responded Nathaniel. T’oba made a gesture to the girl, who turned and left through the door.
	“Put those on, then come out when you’re ready,” said T’oba, turning after Ama.
	In three minutes Nathaniel followed through the door donning the apparel given to him: a green, hooded cloak that hung down behind his hamstrings just above the knee, beige trousers, a belt, and sturdy leather boots. The second he was out the door, Seraila ran and hugged him.
	“Thank God you’re alive!” she exclaimed. “I was starting to think you wouldn’t make it.”
	She let go. Claio walked up to Nathaniel, giving Seraila a concerned look.
	“How ‘bout a handshake,” he said. They both laughed. Nathaniel extended his arm.
	“Glad to see you’re alright,” said Claio, clasping Nathan’s hand. To the left, a door opened.
	“Nathaniel, great to see you’re doing well!” said Harold. Nathaniel turned and shook hands with him.
	“Harold,” he said, “how’s Ellie?”
	“Getting better, but one of the creatures got her in the leg. She’ll need a few days to recover. We’ve already arranged transport for her to go and stay with a friend in the Sigashu Ork tribe just north of the border. You can come in and speak to her if you’d like.”
	“Sure.”
	The two went through the door and found Ellie lying on a mattress with bandages around her leg.
	“You’re up,” she said.
	“Yeah. How’s your leg?” Nathaniel asked. Ellie looked down.
	“It’ll be fine. I’ll be fully mobile again within the week. Plus, I’ll be staying with a good friend in the meantime, so I don’t use too much of T’oba’s generosity. Did he tell you about Seamus?”
	“Mhm.”
	“Good, he should be back any moment. It was no coincidence he found us, as it turns out. He’ll explain more, I’m sure. I spoke to him briefly. Told him about who we’re looking for. He’ll help you out. Harold said he was going to stay with me until I leave for the Sigashu.”
	Harold nodded.
	“I am. Though we’ll both come back. We’re all in this fight together now, even more so that we’ve seen what we’re up against first-hand.”
	“Sounds good,” Nathaniel said. “You take care of her.”
	“Will do,” smiled Harold.
	Ellie looked to both of them.
	“I can take care of myself,” she said, lightly. “But I thank you for the concern.” 
	Nathaniel went back to the room with Seraila and Claio. It was just now that he realized this room was considerably larger than the others, with four doors, one to the room Nathan woke up in, one to Ellie’s, one to another room, and a large granite double-door that presumably led outside.
	“Looks like it’ll be us three for a while,” Nathaniel said.
	“Fine by me,” Claio said, “I prefer a small group I can trust over a larger one.”
	The granite doors opened, revealing a cloaked figure.
	“Come outside,” it said. The three looked at each other, then followed the figure outside. The light was blinding at first, but it gave way to a view of a small city surrounded by the sprawling yellow desert. A rough road came from the entrance, then took a sharp left turn before a stone cliff ahead. The figure stood on the cliff facing the party.
	“Seamus?” asked Nathaniel. The figure nodded.
	“Yes,” he said. “Come closer, all of you. Nathaniel, I have something for you.”
	From under his cloak, Seamus retrieved the gleaming silver sword from the temple atop the mountain in Ay, holding it by the blade towards Nathaniel.
	“Zace wanted you to have it,” said Seamus. Nathaniel slowly reached his arm out and grasped the grip, and felt a shiver run from his arm through his whole body. The gem in the guard flashed green. It was light, for a blade. Nathaniel took a few test swings.
	“Its name is Girindar. It was forged from the remains of the two daggers of Alaia, the first Druid, used. Those blades were powerful symbols to many who fought against Zevnaton.”
	Seraila followed Nathaniel closer to Seamus, but Claio still stood back. Seamus noticed this.
	“Is something wrong?”
	In the silence that followed, a faint buzzing could be heard. Claio drew his sword and stood his ground.
	“What are you?” he asked, sternly. Seamus didn’t even turn his head.
	“Where did you get that?” Seamus asked. Claio’s eyes narrowed.
	“How did you know I had it?”
	“Take it out.”
	Claio reached into his shirt and pulled out an amulet with a red, glowing gem. Claio began to walk forward, slowly, and with each step the amulet began to glow brighter and vibrate faster.
	“Claio, what’s going on?” asked Seraila. Claio stopped and looked straight at Seamus. 
	“If my amulet is reacting,” he said, looking hard at Seamus, “then Seamus is God.” 
There was a long silence. Seraila broke it.
“The God? The Creator?”
“That one,” Claio said. Seamus walked to Claio.
“You are correct, Claio,” he said, “I am the first being, the one who built the world. Since I was dethroned in what your people know as the black march, I wander the world, observing and maintaining my creation.”
“That’s your name,” Seraila said. “Shémus means “wanderer” in ancient Ayan.”
“That’s correct,” Seamus said. He reached his hand out and tapped Claio’s amulet. The gem calmed down, no longer glowing and shaking.
“Where did you get this?”
“My… grandfather,” Claio said.
“Your grandfather gave this to you? Did he know what it is? Where did he get it? Who is he?” Seamus spoke with a strong urgency that stood out from his usually somewhat monotonous voice. Claio looked toward the ground.
“He is Claio Eade-il Doras the First,” he said. “He definitely knew what it was, he used it all the time, even before I was born.” Claio paused. “And he didn’t give it to me. I… stole it when I ran away. I only grabbed the smaller one, though.”
“The smaller one? So your grandfather is still in possession of another shard? A greater shard?”
“Yes.”
“I approve of your actions, no matter your motive,” said Seamus. “The shards were not intended to exist. Mortals created them during the black march as a way to seal off portions of my power. It is very dangerous for anyone to use one, let alone two.”
Seraila walked over between the two.
“Claio, you ran away from your grandfather?”
“Still am,” he said. “Running, I mean. You remember I mentioned I was a former member of the group of swords-for-hire, the Meáltah?”
“Yeah.”
“They are a syndicate headed by my grandfather. The group started a hundred years or so ago as the special tactics division of the Ayan military, and came to be led by my grandfather, a talented soldier and spy, when he was around my age. After a while the group became a separate entity from the empire, still under his leadership, and began to fall into a sort of moral grey area. They maintained influence throughout the empire, and turned from a group that served the king to a group that served itself and those who could pay enough, regardless of their intentions. I was born into the organization in that state, and I remained until I was twenty one, when my grandfather started acting strangely. I realized he’d begun wearing the larger shard, which he’d had since my father’s birth, at all times, even in his sleep. He became stupidly cruel, enforcing the death penalty for just about anything that upset him. That was the point that my father, Claio the Second, and I knew we had to get away. I stole the smaller shard and we ran. Even ordinary members who ran were hunted relentlessly. We were Claio the First’s most trusted members. We thought we knew him well enough to hide, and we were wrong. About a week after our initial flight, a group of loyalist assassins cornered us and killed my father. I’ve been on my own ever since.”
“How’d you escape?”
“He let me, I assume. He had developed a taste for torture and mind-games. Killing my father in front of me was probably a sick joke on his part.
“A tragic story,” said T’oba’s voice. He walked out from the entrance. Turning to see him, Nathaniel realized T’oba’s house was an elaborate temple carved into the tan rock that jutted from the hill. “I have studied the shards with help from Seamus. Cases like your grandfather’s are not uncommon among those who use them often. Mana-induced insanity is the medical term. It stems from continued exposure to an amount or type of mana one isn’t used to. Symptoms not unlike that of substance addiction. A price for the power contained within those shards.” He walked over to Nathaniel. “Here,” he said, holding out brown scabbard. “For the sword.” 
Nathaniel took the scabbard, set it into his belt, and sheathed the blade.
“On the subject of shards,” Nathaniel said, “Morten sent Andus to get one.”	
“Morten?” asked T’oba.
“Zevnaton. He gave me his name. ‘Morten Yol of Keth.’ ”
“He gave you his name?” asked Seamus. “Interesting. He hid his identity even from Allaia and I. 
“We know who Andus is, though,” said T’oba. “The fact that they seem to have an idea of where to find a shard in Keth is troubling. A shard could vastly increase Morten’s abilities. Seamus and I know where twelve of the fifteen shards are, and none of them are in Keth.”
“This is true,” said Seamus. “But if one of the missing shards is being held anywhere in Keth, it is most probably in the imperial archives.”
“Possible, but even so it would be utterly impossible to get any of us inside. Tighter security there than both the Ayan King’s and Naaln Viceroy’s palaces combined,” said T’oba.”
“Yes. But fortunately, Nathaniel’s party’s original intent was to find a certain learned archaeologist and historian. One who has visited the archives before.”
“Convenient. But do we know where he is?”
“I do. I was with the Southeastern Circle before Nathaniel and his group came down, helping them locate this man by request of the Northeastern. He is at a ruin north of the capitol.”
“Can you get us there?” Nathaniel asked.
“I can get horses for you all,” T’oba said. “You may rest inside for a while. I shall go fetch them.”



	Nathaniel and the party went inside T’oba’s residence. A pair of Orkish riders came to pick up Ellie and Harold. Within an hour, T’oba returned with horses for the party: For Nathaniel, a brown mare; Seraila, a white; Claio, a black; Seamus, a grey, and another brown horse for William once he was found. They set off towards the ocean to the west, the sun rising twice on the way to their destination. They would have missed their target had Seamus not known exactly where it was: a grey stone opening concealed by one of many seemingly unending dunes in the desert. Each brought their horse to a stop just inside the opening, to allow them to stay in the shade.
	“How old are these ruins?” Nathaniel asked.
	“A small amount over two-thousand,” said Seamus. “These structures were built to honor and immortalize fallen Keth rulers.”
	The party walked deeper into the ruins, so far only a linear, grey stone corridor sloping gently downward, the walls covered in carvings and writings in an older variant of the common script.
	“La’ilveera,” Seamus uttered. A mote of light appeared near him and hovered just above him as he walked, bringing light to the darkness. Farther down, there was a small yellow-red glow.
	“Who’s there?” Came a very deep voice came from within. That light grew closer, and soon a tall, very dark-skinned man, stepped into Seamus’ light. He had brown eyes and a defined jaw. The on his head was stubble-like, likely just regrowing from being shaved completely off. He wore an outfit not unlike Nathaniel's, a green cape over brown attire, though in this man’s case it appeared to be leather armor. A strap over the cape held a large brown bag to his side. He might’ve been taken for a monk, were it not for the leather armor and, most prominently, a gleaming steel claymore on his back that seemed to give off light of its own.
	“You don’t look like researchers,” said the man. “Who are you?”
	Nathaniel stepped forward.
	“I’m Nathaniel. These are my companions. We’re looking for a Harronian named William.”
	“And you have found a Harronian named William,” said the man. “Do you seek my skills as a ranger or a historian?”
	“Possibly both.”
	“Oh?”
	“Is it true you’re studying Black Magic?”
	William crossed his arms.
	“For scholarly reasons. I am not a warlock, if that’s what you’re asking.”
	“It’s not. I’m a druid. I need your help,” Nathaniel said. William scrutinized him for a second.
	“A druid, hm? You’ll need to prove that.”
	“How?”
	“Follow me.”
	“Come with me.”
The five of them continued down the corridor, past a seemingly endless wall of carvings. Nathaniel noticed a dim light visible ahead of them. At the end of the corridor was a circular room. The light was revealed to be a brazier, dimly lit with Mage-fire, which stood between the group and a circular door indicative of some kind of vault, save for there was no visible keyhole or operating mechanism anywhere in the room.
“What is this?” asked Nathaniel.
“The memorial vault of the founder of the current dynasty of Keth, Hakor nēu Ke’di. One of the few Druid survivors of the war against Zevnaton, went on to unite the scattered peoples of the south desert. His most prized possession was stored in this structure, in a chamber sealed with a lock only openable with the magic of another druid.”
“How do I open it?”
“Place your hand on the small circle there,” William said, pointing to the door. Nathaniel did so. When his hand touched the stone, a tree shape, not unlike the one on the door to the Temple of the Druids or the tome Nathaniel found those weeks ago, began to spread over the door’s surface. There was a click, and Nathaniel took his hand off. The smaller circle moved backwards and was pulled up out of sight, and the larger slid downwards into the earth, opening the way to the hidden chamber. A circle of flame spread around the circular wall from an indent towards the ceiling. Now, the room was well illuminated, showcasing the object in the center: a golden pauldron.
“Well, there can be no doubt that you’re as you claim,” said William.
“I knew Hakor,” said Seamus. “I thought he was buried with that.”
“Only with the right one. He left this one behind, as it was an ancient tradition for his people to leave one of their most prized possessions for display post-mortem.”
William walked to the pedestal, pulled a book from his bag, and began carefully writing down notes.
“So you’ll help me?” Nathaniel asked.
	“Depends,” said William. “With what?”
	“You’re familiar with the historical figure Zevnaton?”
	“I am.”
	“He’s come back. My being a druid is tied to his return.”
	“Hm,” William looked down in thought. “Now there’s a call-to-action if I’ve ever heard one. I still don’t know why you need my help, though.”
“He and one of his key followers are looking for a shard here in Keth,” said Nathaniel. They both paused.
“A God-Shard?” William asked.
“Yeah,” replied Nathaniel. Seamus stepped forward. 
“I and an associate of mine have been tracking the locations of the shards,” he said. “So far only two have eluded us.”
“If there’s a shard hidden in Keth,” said William, “It’d be in the archives.”
“That was our thought,” Seraila said. “We were hoping you could get us in.”
“I’m a foreigner. Though I did get some access a couple years ago, it was barely more than was available to the public.”
“Do you know how we could get access?” asked Nathaniel. William nodded.
“The archive staff—Librarians they’re called—will occasionally trade access in exchange for valuable artifacts or information.” He held up the pauldron. “We’d need an artifact or information, and now we have both. The armor of the first Emperor of Keth, and news that Zevnaton has returned.” He turned to Nathaniel. “I will take you to the librarians immediately, unless you’ve any objection.”
“None,” answered Nathaniel.
“Great. Do you have transport?”
“Horses.”
“Works. Should be just under a day’s ride.”

//VIII-II
Somewhere off the coast of Sa’aru

“You know, Daniel, I hoped getting out of the university would make you get your nose out of your books. Of course you end up bringing half your library with you,” a large eyed, dark-skinned, and long-haired elf said. Daniel, looking no different than he did when approached by Nathaniel for help two weeks ago, closed the massive book in his hands.
“We’re spending over a week at sea, and you expect me to just play with magic lights like the rest? You know me better than that, Gael.”
“What I know and what I hope are two very different things. At least come up on deck for a while.”
“Alright.”
The two climbed a rung ladder and emerged into the harsh sunlight of midday. Once there, it was apparent that their ship was one of dozens, near the center of a fleet of galleons, each a near-perfect copy of every other. This ship was named “hu ovadz.” Daniel and Gael blended in, even on their own ship, where everyone wore sleeveless black robes that stopped just below the knee.
“When was the last time they drafted mages straight out of the university?” asked Gael.
“Thirty years, I think,” replied Daniel, “But they didn’t draft anywhere near this many.”
“Bothers me that they won’t even tell us what we’re doing, beyond ‘bringing something back from Keth.’ Hah. My ass. No one needs three hundred mages to ‘get something.’” 
“Yeah, that’s true. But the Viceroy wouldn’t’ve approved this if it wasn’t important. The viceroys have always been picked to exemplify level-headedness and logic.”
“Maybe, but you still don’t need an army of mages to run an errand. Bothers me more that Andus is leading the operation. He’s brilliant, don’t get me wrong, but you can’t deny that he isn’t the most stable. He’s not even on any of these ships to tell us anything more. A little too eager to demonstrate black magic in class, too. I worry that some of the others aren’t using the recommended protection magicks. I even started wearing this just in case.”
Gael pulled out a pendant suspended on a thin wire around his neck, a thin chunk of bone a little over an inch and a half in diameter with some markings in black ink on the front.
“You’re trying to protect yourself from black magic by using a black magic trinket?”
“Well, bones, like silver and some other metals, can perfectly contain black magic. The little bit of it that’s inside can’t get out. All it does is vibrate a little when black magic is nearby. Lets me know so I can cast a protective spell.”
Gael stopped for a moment.
“Speaking of which, it’s vibrating now,” he said, looking around. Both he and Daniel made a chain of gestures birthing several specks of white light around them.
“From where?” Daniel asked. On the opposite side of the ship from the two, a black mass fell, leaving their gaunt professor behind.
“Black magic teleportation? That’s ridiculous,” said Gael. “There’s no reason to use black magic to teleport for any kind of normal wizard. There’s no difference between it and the standard variety. Unless some kind of ward prevented the use of standard mana?”
“All manaphobic wards suppress basic and black magic, you know that,” Daniel said. Gael turned to him.
“No I didn’t. Where’d you learn that?”
“Books.”
“Of course.”
“In his defense, black porting doesn’t require the destination to be pre-marked, while standard does. You had a point though. Most mages shouldn’t have a reason to use black magic when porting. Maybe we could ask him.”
“Uh, sure. But you’re doing the talking.”
It was apparent that the other mages had noticed the professor’s odd choice of transport. Pushing their way through the crowd of gawkers, Daniel and Gael made their way to him. Andus was mumbling something to himself under his breath.
“Professor Uwren?” said Daniel. Andus flinched, then turned.
“Ah Daniel, my devoted student,” he said. “It is good you are here. You will be of great service to us.”
“Us?”
“The mages! Me! You were always studious and-and most importantly, loyal! We need loyalty if we are to succeed here, you know!”
The dark wizard had moved uncomfortably close to Daniel’s face.
“Um, right. Professor, I wanted to ask why you used black magic to port yourself here. Gael and I were talking. We couldn’t think of a reason you’d choose to cast a black magic spell for that purpose.”
“Mm-hmm! Observant, Daniel. Very. You see, I didn’t cast the spell. I used a translocator to get here.”
“And why did you use a black magic translocator?”
“You pry much, Daniel. All will be revealed in time,” said Andus. He looked around at the many mages still looking at him. “Back to your duties, all of you!” he shouted. The mages scurried to obey, in light of Andus’ widely-known temper. “You should do the same Daniel, Gael.”
“Could I ask one thing, professor?” Gael asked.
“You may.”
“What are we supposed to be getting? And where from?”
Andus eyed the elf.
“The what is not for you to hear. The where is within the central chamber of the Keth Royal archives.”
“But no one has access to the archives aside from the librarians there and the emperor himself! You expect an army of mages to just show up at their doorstep and barge in?”
“That’s an act of war,” said Daniel, “and what about the anti-mages and guards they have there?”
Andus turned back to facing off-deck.
“It’s simple,” he said, raising a hand to his side. “We kill them.”
A black flame burst to life in his hand.
“We kill them all,” said the dark wizard. Gael looked to Daniel.
“Well, fuck.”

//IX
The Imperial Archives, Keth, Sa’aru

	The five horses stopped in the shadow of a massive yellow-brown building surrounded on three sides by looming red cliffs protruding from the sand-sea that consumed the rest of their view. A great brown pyramid rising out of a defensive wall surrounding it. The wall seemed completely spotless, with no indication of any damage or even an entrance. Dozens of fully-armored Keds stood atop it with bows clutched in one hand, undrawn.
	“The archives,” said William. “Come, I will do the talking.”
	“Come where? I don’t see a gate,” Nathaniel said.
	“It’s on the other side. Wouldn’t make any sense to have the most vulnerable part of the building be the most easily accessible.”
	“Are they prepared for an attack here?”
	“This is the most secure building in the world. It has a small army inside.”
	The party tied their horses under a small canopy in front of the structure designed for the purpose, then moved behind William and approached the two guards at the gate. The one on the left addressed the group.
	“State your business. Failure to comply will see you arrested and questioned.”
	“We seek entrance to the archives. In exchange we’ve brought both a valuable artifact and information,” said William. The guard stared at William with an unshifting gaze.
	“What artifact?”
	“The left pauldron of Hakor of the Ke’di.”
	“Present it.”
	From his bag, William pulled out the golden shoulderguard.
	“Call the Grand Librarian,” said the Guard on the left. The one on the right turned and hurried into the complex.
	“Can we enter?” William asked.
	“The Grand Librarian will answer that,” said the guard. In remarkably little time, the other guard returned with three more Ked, two of them guards. One of them, though, stood out, as he didn’t stand tall and proud like the others. He was hunched over, wearing a bandana covering most of his face below the eyes. As he drew near the party, scarring from what were perhaps old burns marked much of the right side of his face, while a dark, crescent shaped tattoo hugged his eye on the other. It was he that first spoke.
	“You have Hakor’s pauldron?”
	“Right here,” said William, holding it up. The hunched one took two fingers and set them around his right eye, as though he was holding it open. The eye appeared to glow for a second.
	“It’s legitimate,” said the hunched one. “The archive thanks you for your contribution to the continued preservation of history.” He looked down and shook his head. “I hate having to say that. Unnecessary. But it is tradition.” He looked back up to William and the group. 
“I’ve seen you before, westman.”
“William. I visited three years ago.”
“Mm. I expect you want some kind of reward.”
“We want access to something from your archives.”
“What ‘something?’”
	“A red shard.” 
The hunched one paused.
	“Such an object is non-negotiable. Anything of its caliber must be kept under guard.”
	William gestured to Nathaniel.
	“This is your fight. Tell them,” William said. Nathaniel stepped forward.
	“Zevnaton of the Druidic Wars is alive and planning to attack these archives,” he said. 
	“You have proof?”
	“Saw him give the order myself.”
	“You got the pauldron from the memorial crypt of Hakor. You fight Zevnaton. You are a druid.”
	“I am.”
	“How soon should we expect this attack?”
	“Soon.”
	“Fair,” said the hunched one. He turned to his guards. “Put the archives into second-level lockdown.” Silent obedience. They left.
	“Zevnaton is after the shard?” asked the hunched one.
	“Yes. We hoped to get it before he did, to keep it from him.”
	“Where would you have the shard moved?”
	“I would absorb it,” said Seamus. The hunched one placed his fingers about his eye again and looked at him.
	“You are the creator.”
	“So they call me. You are considerably calm talking to your kind’s dead god.”
	“I did not judge you to be a threat.”
	“I do not intend to be.”
	“Very well. You all may follow me into the courtyard.”
	The group did so, with the hunched one leading.
	“You may call me Hunchback. I am the Grand Librarian of the archives.”
	“Your… name is Hunchback?” Seraila asked.
	“No. My actual name is of an esoteric Keth dialect, with pronunciation so difficult even I have trouble saying it. It would start with a ‘K’ in the modern alphabet, if that pleases you.”
	Here the party entered a looming, green pair of double doors and entered a moderately sized, cubic, empty room with ornate patterns lining the floor and ceiling. On the far side was another pair of doors, these ones rust-colored, guarded by pair of guards.
	“I am not supposed to bring more than two outsiders into the vaults at a time. I will bring the druid and William. I fear the creator would cause some of our artifacts to react violently.”
	“We’ll wait here, then,” Seraila said. Hunchback waved the two guards aside and held his palm out to the doors. A series of clicks preceded their opening, revealing an impressive corridor, with various objects‒ some lavish, some unnerving and outlandish ‒ stored in glass cases along and on the walls.
	“Here at the archives we are devoted to preserving the relics of our empire’s ‒ and occasionally the entire world’s ‒ history. We are the world’s sixth-oldest civilization, but have the longest unbroken dynasty, back to Hakor, uniter of the tribes.”
	“How old are the archives?” Nathaniel asked.
	“Founded by Hakor’s successor, his daughter.”
	"Are we going to the central chamber?" asked William.
	"Yes. Our  most valuable artifacts are kept there. Your shard is among them."
	From one of the doors lining the walls, a Ked came and approached Hunchback.
	"Librarian, something is wrong."
	"What is?"
	"Our manaphobic ward—it appears to have been weakened."
	"It’s worked flawlessly for two thousand years. What changed?"
	"We aren't sure. We have some researches investigating possible causes and -"
	Many of the more unusual-looking trinkets in the room started to vibrate. First softly, but quickly began a continuing crescendo. The floor began to shake violently.
	"This might be your reason."
	A massive noise and shunt of the ground threw all but Hunchback off balance. He turned to Nathaniel.
	"You weren't exaggerating when you said they'd be here soon," he said. Now he turned to the other Ked. "I want the archives put into level-zero lockdown. Then, get word to the emperor. Go."
	With no hesitation the Ked turned and ran back down the hall. Hunchback waved his hand, a series of white runes circling it. Opaque barriers arose to cover all the class cases, and a chorus of clicks signified the locking of doors. The shaking of the ground continued, now intermixed with larger noises. Small chunks of the ceiling began to rain down.
	"Something is close," said Hunchback. "Weapons."
	Nathaniel drew his silver blade and held it at his side. William removed the claymore from his back and brought it down on the floor, leaving cracks in the ground. He muttered a word, "Ynfaa," and glowing orange runes burned themselves onto his blade. 
	The ceiling fell. With alarming speed, Hunchback moved between the two. Bringing his hands about half a torso apart from each other, he produced a blue orb. He slammed his hands into each other, diffusing the blue light in a sphere about them. The falling chunks of stone broke on contact with the sphere. Now, he held his hands at his sides, a blue ring of runes surrounding both hands. The bright sun now penetrated the room through the craters above. Hunchback looked to a boulder heap in front of them.
	"The path to the central chamber is blocked. We need to go back and around."
The three did so, hurriedly moving back down the hallway under the protection of hunchback's field. Hunchback waved the door open.
	A blade came flying towards Nathaniel's face, making contact just below his eye. Nathaniel looked into the eye of it's wielder. Two completely black eyes, on pale skin over black armor. A flash of red knocked the figure away from his view. He stood still a moment. A drop of blood slid down his cheek. Just a scratch. Looking down, he saw his assailant, clothes and skin smoldering.
Now Nathaniel noticed the carnage about them. Claio and Seraila were engaged with numerous similarly-clothed men.
	"Welcome back! How was the museum?" asked Claio, sarcastically. Nathaniel laughed and ran to help him. Intercepted by a swordsman, he swung his steel. Clash. Parry. Clash. Swing. Dodge. Hit. The swordsman fell. A yell from behind him. Turning, Nathaniel saw the glint of an axe. A brighter flash knocked this one away from him, and where he had been stood Seraila.
	"Got you," she said.
	"Thanks."
	"Some help here?" asked Claio. Nathaniel and Seraila ran to him, removing two of his three foes from the equation. After, they all stood together, back to back to back.
	"Where's Seamus?" asked Nathaniel.
	"Nearby. They're raining fire on us from the sky, that's how the attack started. He went to block them," Seraila said. Each fended off several more attacks.
	"Get down!" yelled Claio. A ball of fire flew over their heads and detonated across the room. Three mages stood in an opening in the walls. Immediately, a much larger fireball blew the mages out of the room. It was from hunchback.
	"It looks like some mages are getting through now. We need to move to the central chamber, or we'll lose the shard," he said urgently. Five more mages came through the opening, lights glaring in their hands, ready to be unleashed as a spell. William ran towards them. Starting with his sword's point almost dragging on the floor, he heaved it in an arc in front of himself. The runes on his blade shone brilliantly, and a wave of flame knocked all five back.
	"I'll lead," he said. "Come on."
	The party ran through the opening, into the broad light of the day and the heat of the fallout. Now they were in a courtyard. A high pitched shrill came from above. Looking up, a winding black mass began to form, writhing with increased speed as it grew. It froze briefly, then pointed straight down and shot towards the ground.
	"Gael, now!" yelled a voice. A white shield appeared just above the courtyard. The black thing smashed into it, spawning a blinding flash and a deep pulse. Nathaniel fell to his knees from the pain of the noise. When the ache eased, he stood and looked where the voice had come from. Gael sat on one knee, hands pressed together. Above him stood Daniel, in front of a small group of mages in blue.
	"Daniel?" asked Nathaniel.
	"Interesting place for you to show up, Nathan," responded Daniel.
	"Are you with Andus?"
	"No. When he revealed his intentions a small group of us managed to split off. He's using black magic to control the rest. He took the entire body of the college of mages to make an army."
	"How'd he do that? What about the Viceroy?"
	"We're pretty sure the Viceroy is dead, and that someone in Andus' group has usurped the role in secret."
	"That's an issue."
	"Very much so. This here is Gael, by the way, my roommate from the university. We owe the fact that we aren't controlled by Andus to his expertise in barriers and wards."
	"Good to meet you," said Gael, standing.
	"You as well."
	"Hold on," said Daniel. "Is that Seraila?"
	"It is," she said. "Good to see you again."
	"I thought you died!"
	"Long story, tell you later. We need to go. We know what Andus is after."
	"Uh, right! Let's go, then."
	The now group, now featuring Daniel, Gael, and an attachment of mages, made their way back into the complex through another door. A black-clad man flew across the room and smashed the wall on the other side. Looking to his origin, the source of this flight was clear, if surprising. Amau stood there, clutching a massive golden hammer easily two inches taller than herself.
	"Oh, found them, Papa."
	T'oba too emerged from a corner of this room.
	"There you are, Nathaniel."
	"How did you get here?"
	"Coincidence, truthfully. We were on our way to the capital when we saw the commotion. We could only assume it was Morten. We thought to help.”
	“We could use you, monk,” said Hunchback.
	“We need to get into the central chamber. The shard’s there,” said Nathaniel.
	“We shall come.”
	“There is another hallway to the center here,” said Hunchback, leading. The party followed, down a hall nearly indistinguishable from the one Nathaniel and William had been in before the attack. At the end of this unobstructed hallway, the doors were already open, a sparse black fog drifting out along the floor. Hunchback entered first, followed by Nathaniel. This room was cylindrical, with a high ceiling. In the center, up a stack of three circular steps, was a pedestal, in the shadow of the figure of a familiar but changed black-robed man.
	“Of course you show up here, Nathaniel,” said Andus. “The shard belongs to the Zev nrau Yol now.”
	Turning, Andus revealed the effects of black magic on his body. His right arm and side of his face was black and corrupted. His hunch and twitch both were now more pronounced.
	“You associate with a fallen God,” he said. “An inhuman and useless god who cannot reclaim his throne. But our world needs an undisputed leader, one who will end superstition and petty conflicts, and build up our world under a single united empire. That is what the one you call Zevnaton will be.” He held the shard up. “This is the first step toward a new world, a new god.”
	Andus placed the shard around his neck. It began to shine, emanating its red light. Andus’ irises pulsed a faint hue of the same color. He pounded his staff on the ground, a twisted grin crossing his face.
	“I will show you a glimpse of a god’s power!” he exclaimed, thrusting his staff forward. The wisps of black fog near the floor thickened, and a phenomenal force threw the party against the walls. 
	All but Nathaniel.
	Nathaniel had awakened. Despite the surge of energy, he still struggled against the powerful gust. The rest had been stuck against the walls, unable to move. Gael yelled. With a colossal noise, the expanding trails of black were shoved inwards toward their caster. He clasped his hands together.
	“Perfect isolation shield dome!”
	He clenched his sword in his hand, the gem in its hilt glowing faintly, responding to his awakening.
	“Fine then. I shall kill two birds with one stone,” Andus said. Raising his free hand, he conjured a fireball of relatively small size. Nathaniel did not move, waiting to see his opponent’s strategy. With a small wave of his staff, Andus sent a small black wisp to the ball. On contact, the ball swelled in size and shifted to a dark blue, blazing with a newfound rage. The ball flew at Nathaniel. Jumping, he felt a sting on his face - the heat alone was enough to injure. He landed on one knee. The ground shook and the barrier simmered. Pushing up, Nathaniel lunged at Andus with the point of his blade. Andus ducked, with dexterity surprising for one of his age. Nathaniel made contact with the ground just behind the wizard and spun, swinging his blade. Andus shot his hand out, shoving Nathaniel back with a gust of force. Andus again had the high ground. Three of the blazing spheres he made now, again strengthening them with the black. The first flew, Nathaniel jumped, then faster came the second. He hurled out of the way again. By the time he touched the ground, the third had flown.
	It made contact.
	Nathaniel flew back and hit the barrier, then falling flat on the ground. His exposed flesh was raw and bled. Seraila screamed from behind the barrier. There was nothing she could do.
	Andus approached Nathaniel’s sullied figure. Holding his hand to his side, the black mist pooled towards his hand, shifting and solidifying into a curved, black blade the length of his forearm. Andus grabbed it.
	“Your interference was inconsequential in the grand scheme of things. His might will reunite our divided Yjaru,” said the wizard. “With this knife, the last druid will be gone and our success ensured.”
	Nathaniel could no longer lift his head to look at his opponent. He dropped his skull to the floor and laid there still. Andus grabbed the knife with both hands now and lifted it above his head, almost ceremoniously, straight over Nathaniel’s limp body. He brought it down.
	The blade became coated in thick red up to the black hilt. Separating the colors was a pale hand covered in green markings.
	“I’m not. Done. Yet,” came a muffled voice. Andus flew back and slammed into the barrier. Nathaniel brought himself to his feet, bloody hand outstretched. One of his eyes was bruised and bloodshot, but the other was clear and shone with the green light of his awakening. The marks on the side of his originally awakened arm now extended up to his eye, and now the other arm had the marks too. The hand of the newly-marked arm was the bloody one, with a clear gash in the center from the black knife, though this hole began visibly shrinking and closing.
	Across the room, Andus had risen, he himself now adorned with sanguine and gashes and bruises. He gripped his staff, hunched over and wheezing. He waved his hand and conjured more than a dozen of the blades from the black fog. Nathaniel walked towards him. Andus yelled, waving his hand towards Nathaniel and sending the blades flying. Thrusting his own hand forward, Nathaniel sent a green wave forward, scattering Andus’ projectiles. The wizard screamed in agony, falling to the ground, clenching the dark side of his face. His staff hit the ground next to him.
	“It b-b-b-,” he yelped. “It burns!”
	He continued screaming. Nathaniel now stood over him, holding his silver blade.
	The professor would not get up again.



	The mages had released the barrier. The original three stood over the body.
	“This is the one that started this,” Nathaniel said.
	“We’re not done yet,” Seraila said. “The army he had is still out there, albeit in disarray, according the our mages.”
	A low hum came from behind them, and Seamus came between them. He bent down and removed the shard from Andus’ neck.
	“I need to go now. I will meet you in Semaru,” he said.
	“Wait, Semaru?” asked Nathaniel, confused. “Across the ocean?”
	“You will find out soon,” said Seamus. There was the hum again, and in a blur Seamus was gone. There was a short silence.
	“Despite everything, this wasn’t a bad first step,” Claio said. “I’m going to go see if the mages need help.”
	“I’ll come in a moment,” Seraila said. Claio turned and left.
	“I thought you were dead for sure,” Seraila said to Nathan. She hugged him. “Let’s not get into any more fights like that for a while,” she said.
	“You’re cold,” Nathaniel said.
	“Well, obviously. I am dead.”
	“Do you think you could ever be not dead again?”
	“It’s possible. I doubt it would turn out well if I tried. You have to be a very special case for something like that to work smoothly.”
	“Oh.”
	Hunchback approached the two.
	“I’m going to go help the rest,” Seriala said. She left. Hunchback looked at Andus.
	“Someone should burn this,” Nathaniel said.
	“I was going to put it on display,” Hunchback said. Nathaniel looked at him wide-eyed.
	“That was a joke.”
	“Good,” Nathaniel said, jokingly.
	“You might want to go help outside. Even though this one is dead, we’re still considerably outnumbered,” said Hunchback.
	“Going,” Nathaniel said in response. He walked hurriedly down the corridor and through into the broken room, then from there to and out of the gates of the outer wall.
	The desert, it seemed to him for a moment, had turned black. He joined Seraila and the others at the crest of the hill.
	“That’s one massive army,” Seraila said. The black that coated the sand-sea was the densely packed ranks of an army in familiar black uniform, occupying almost all they could see in front.
	“There’s no way all that’s from the college. They bolstered their ranks. Heavily. Beyond tenfold,” said Gael.
	“Can we hold against an army like that? How many do we have, Daniel?” Claio asked.
	“Thirty-four. And one’s down an arm. So thirty-three point-eight-fivish.”
	“Brilliant,” replied Claio. “Do you hear something?”
	A faint whistle indeed had become audible. Over the black army was a swarm of blurred shapes had appeared. At first glance these would appear to be a flock of birds, but no such bird lived in this region.
	“Over there!” Seraila said.
	To their left, another swath of figures had appeared, and it became apparent what the figures were: arrows. They plunged into the black army’s ranks, thinning its numbers with the ferocity of a scourge.
	“Those others… are those Orks?” asked Gael.
	“Indeed! Sigashu Orcs of the Southern Expanse!” said a familiar, upbeat voice.
	Nathaniel looked back to the road up the hill.
	“Harold? Ellie?” he said.
	“None other!” Harold said. Behind him, the armies clashed.
	“This is convenient,” said Nathaniel.
	“I’d say so,” Harold replied. “Seamus told us a day ago that a sizable army could be necessary. He wasn’t kidding. I don’t think he even can kid, actually.”
	“The fighters you brought are considerably less in number than their opponents,” Seraila said. “Will they be enough?”
	“You strongly underestimate the combat efficiency of Orcs, Seraila.”
	“Harold seems to be telling the truth. The black army is retreating,” said William.
	“Are those holes in the ground they’re going into?” asked Claio.
	Three massive spots of pitch black had appeared in the desert where the army stood, and the black army’s ranks poured into them.
	“It’s a type of black magic mass teleportation. But I’ve never seen it on this scale,” said William. They all watched until all the enemy was either dead or gone.
	“This was a great victory,” said Nathaniel.
	“I don’t doubt it,” said Harold. “But we didn’t just show up to celebrate. We’ve news from the circle and Seamus.”
	“What is it?”
	“They have concluded that Zevnaton and his followers are based out of Semaru. The north of Semaru,” said Harold. William stepped forward.
	“Fuur?” he said, worriedly.
	“Unfortunately.”
	“It can’t be that bad of a place, can it?” asked Claio. “Besides the cold.”
	“You all didn’t grow up in Semaru,” William said. “None of you really know the terror that is that place.”
	“So we’re going there?”
	“We are,” said Ellie. “We’ve arranged transportation out of Keethe. It’s a long trip by boat, but you’ll get there within a few months.”
	“How soon do we leave?” asked Nathaniel.
	“You have three days,” Harold said. William had walked over to the covered area.
	“The horses look unscathed,” he said. “They’ll be able to get us to Keethe.”
	“Harold and I have our horses. We’ll be going to Semaru with you, but we’ll be parting shortly after. We’ll be rallying the other circles.”
	“Gael and I will stay on this side of the world for a while longer, I think,” said Daniel. “But, we won’t leave a job half-finished. We will get what support we can and travel to Semaru soon.”
	“Alright,” said Nathaniel. “Should we leave now?” 
Hunchback approached them from behind.
	“I wouldn’t,” he said. The capitol isn’t far, but it’s still the heat of day. You can stay here for a few hours until dusk falls.”
	“Thanks, Hunchback,” said Seraila.



	They sat inside the great entrance room of the archives for some hours, until the sky began to darken and grow pink. They all met again in front of the structure, at the crest of the hill, all mounted on horseback. Hunchback watched as they prepared.
	“The archives is in your debt for your assistance in their defense,” he said, humbly. “You can count all of our resources at your disposal during your fight against Zevnaton, and we will be happy to assist any of you should you need to return here at any time.”
	“We’re grateful, Hunchback,” said Nathaniel.
	“Good luck.”
	The horses started down the hill, slowly, then briskly. For six hours they rode over the dunes of the southern expanse until they found themselves on the outskirts of Keethe. They agreed here to meet at the port in three days time. Each wandered the city, enjoying their last moments on land before a four-month voyage across the sea. Claio and Harold visited the pubs. Nathaniel and William wandered and sampled bits of the local culture. Seraila stayed with Ellie at an in, as Ellie still couldn't fully use the leg she’d injured, much less navigate a cramped city like this.
	Once three days passed, all six met in the shadow of their boat, a massive chestnut-brown Galleon, large for a boat, but small for a place to spend four months.
	“This’ll be fun,” said Claio, sarcastically.
	“I hope they at least have board games,” said William.
	“I brought cards!” said Harold. A whistle.
	“That means it’s time to board,” said Ellie.
 	“Let’s go, then,” Seraila said. Lead the group up the boarding ramp. Within an hour, the boat had left port, and within another, all sight of land was gone.

Two months later
PART II

A War in the West, a Missing Mage, Revenge and Rebirth
//X
Coast of Danel, Harrondian Kingdoms, Semaru


	Two months they had been at sea. Nathaniel’s hair was longer now, down just above his jaw. He stood looking off the bow of the ship at the growing line on the horizon—Semaru, so-brilliantly named ‘Westland’ in the Ayan language. He was relieved of his solitude by William’s walking up beside him to share in the view.
	“I was born in that Kingdom,” he said. “Danel, trade capital of the world. Do you know of it?”
“They call it ‘the door between the lands,’ right?”
“Mm-hmm. You can go from being dirt-poor to one of the wealthiest men in the world and back again all in a few years here.”
“What’s it like?”
“Honestly couldn’t tell you. I was born there, but it was in a rural village in the forest, and I spent most of my life in the central part of the Harrondian Kingdoms, a country—well, former country—called Illiston. It’s been chaos in that region since the house of mages, its governing body, fell fifteen years ago. Now three separate countries all called Illiston vie for control. A complete mess.”
“A country within a country? Is Illiston not part of the Harrondian Kingdoms?”
“It’s complicated. The Harrondian Kingdoms is more a loose federation—and when I say loose, I mean very loose—of a host of smaller countries run by people who consider themselves ‘Harrondian.’ They’re held together almost exclusively by the need for unity in order to keep the Fuuren to the north at bay.”
For a while, they both stood on the bow watching the outlines of the densely-packed, tall, muted-colored buildings of this city come into view.
“I need Harold,” Nathaniel said. He turned around, scanning the deck, which was growing crowded with people anxious to disembark. It was only by straining his eyes a bit that he was able to spot two white ears sticking out in the crowd. He called for Harold. The ears perked up for a second, then came the rest of the Fae from among the crowd.
“Nathaniel? What can I do for you?”
“We’re almost there, but we don’t really have any clear ideas of what to do once we get off the boat. You have any leads for us beyond ‘they’re somewhere in the north?’”
“You’re showing more initiative than you’ve been previously, Nathaniel. That’s good. The more accepting you are of your role, the better. But, unfortunately, no. What information we have is rather minimal. The ‘Zev nrau Yol’ as they refer to themselves are very secretive, at least at the moment. You can only find them when they want to be found.”
“I see.”
“I not sure how helpful this’ll be,” said William, “but an old friend of mine will be meeting us once we get off in Card—that’s the city you see there. She’s the kind of person that would know something we could use.”
The three of them saw that that was their best option at the moment. Half an hour later, they had moored and pushed their way off the boat. All six who’d gotten on—Nathaniel, Seraila, Claio, William, Harold, and Ellie—now stood on the docks of Card.
“William, where are we supposed to be meeting your friend?” Asked Nathaniel.
“No idea,” answered William.
“Oh. Nice.”
“Harold and I will be taking our leave now, sorry to say,” said Ellie. “We’ve got a date with the Midwestern Circle. We’ll catch up with you in a few weeks, or sooner if anything important happens.”
“Best of luck to you all!” said Harold.
“I want another match when we meet again, Harold,” said Claio, grinning, “to confirm that I’m the superior dual-wielding swordsman.”
“Hah! Fine, but I assure you it will have the opposite outcome.”
The remaining four watched the two Fae move quickly through the crowds and soon out of sight. William gestured to the other three to follow him, and they began to walk through the streets of the city.
“I know she’ll probably be in a more populated area, like the square, the extrovert that she is.”
“Wrong!” Came a high voice from above them. They all turned their gazes to the roof of one of the buildings next to them. A woman sat with legs dangled over the ledge. Her appearance was surprising to Nathaniel. She had medium skin, so she wasn’t an ethnic Harronidan like William. Her skin was reminiscent of the Keds, though her long, smooth hair proved she wasn’t, and the sharpness of her facial features labeled her as ethnically Ma’uali, from the world’s southeast. Her skin wasn’t the most interesting part, though. She wore her hair down—it extended a few inches past her shoulders—but she’d let it grow so that half her face was hidden by her hair. Nathaniel found this odd, as to him she seemed attractive and therefore wouldn’t have much reason to cover her face. It wasn’t a fashion thing, at least Nathaniel thought it wasn’t, seeing as no one else he’d seen here sported that hairstyle, and the rest of her outfit seemed well-picked.
“Catherine, how’d you even get up there?” William asked. She laughed.
“I finally got the hand of teleporting, I guess. What’ve you been up to these last thirteen years, William? Studying, lemme guess.”
“It’s been that long? And yes, you could say that,” William said. Catherine laughed again. She pushed off the ledge and floated down to the ground, where she looked at the three in the party she didn’t know.
“Introduce me, Will.”
“This one’s Nathaniel. The man there with the ponytail is Claio. And the girl here is Seraila.”
“Good to meet you,” Nathaniel said, shaking her hand.
“Heya,” said Claio.
“A pleasure,” said Seraila.
“Seraila, I love your hair!” Catherine said, ecstatically.
“What? Mine, I… oh. Thank you,” Seraila responded. Catherine laughed.
“So, whatcha need?” She asked.
“We wanted to ask you if you’ve noticed or heard anything strange lately. Particularly relating to the Fuuren.”
“The Fuuren? I did see one the other day, actually.”
“What? This far south of the border?”
“Yeah. Just north of the city, actually. I can take you where I saw her, if you want.”
“That’d be great.”
Catherine took them through the city, including through a few alleys that the others wouldn’t dare take on their own. Leaving the wooden city gates, Nathaniel came to notice that the nature in this area wasn’t much different, at least visually, from the Miir. They’d been walking for nearly half an hour when Catherine had them stop in a clearing.
“Why were you out this far, Catherine? I never knew you to like long walks in nature.”
“I don’t. I came because I sensed something.”
“What was it?” asked Seraila.
“Dunno. The Fuuren just looked me in the eye and left.”
Seraila closed her eyes and went silent for a while.
“What are you doing?” Nathaniel asked.
“Hang on,” she said. “There’s someone else nearby.”
“Where? I don’t feel anyone,” said Catherine. Seraila opened her eyes again, then looked into the foliage a ways down the clearing, and pointed.
“There.”
Everyone looked, and were met by two sharp yellow eyes. The figure with those eyes stepped out into the open, and William’s jaw dropped.
“He’s… Harrondian!”
Despite the Fuuren eyes, there was no denying it. The man had a Harrondian’s dark brown skin. The figure dressed in a black robe and stood perfectly straight, unmoving. Catherine, who’d remained nonchalant up to this point, now showed fear on her face.
“He’s probably a half-breed. Look closely at his face. See how he looks malnourished? That’s probably his pale Fuuren half clashing with the dark skin he got from his Harrondian side,” Seraila said.
“Are you sure?” Claio asked. “Maybe he’s a vampire. Vampires have yellow eyes, too.”
“No, he’s not,” said Seraila. “Vampire irises are circular. His are slits. He’s Fuuren.”
Each party stood on opposite sides of the clearing and stared at the other.
“Ca-ther-en. Are you,” the Half-breed said. Catherine froze.
“He speaks our language?” Nathaniel said.
“He knows my name. How does he know my name?” Catherine said, fearfully.
“Well-ee-em. Are you,” the Half-Breed said.
“Mine, too?” William asked. The Half-breed turned straight to Catherine.
“You burned me,” he said, in a language only Catherine knew. Catherine’s eyes narrowed.
“How do you know this language? What do you mean we burn-.” Her eyes widened. “William, it’s him!”
“Him? Who’s him?”
“From fifteen years ago! At the fall of the house of mages! He used to wear a mask, remember?”
William froze.
“But we killed him! Jaren and I set the fire ourselves! I saw him die!”
“No,” said the Half-breed. “Fuuren. Burn. Can not.”
Everyone stood in silence for a long time.
“Catherine,” William said, “ask what his name is.”
“Rha leakr nge?”
“Kanos leakr tazo’u.”
“Kanos. He says it’s Kanos.”
“Cat, we don’t have Jaren with us. If we don’t get away from here, we’re going to die.”
“He’s not going to let us get away.”
“Are you going to use your eye?”
“I don’t really have a choice.”
Catherine moved her hand under the covered side of her face, and pushed away the hair. It felt like she caused a small earthquake. Her hair now floated a little above its normal hanging length, and away from her face, revealing what she’d been covering. An all-black eye, surrounded by gnarled, black scar tissue.
“All of you, stand back, now,” William said. “You don’t want to get in her way with her eye turned on.”
Kanos raised one hand, summoning in front of it a chaotic black orb that made a static sound as it came into shape. 
“He can’t use combat magic in phase one, can he?” Catherine thought to herself. She adjusted her stance, setting her feet firmly on the ground a good distance apart and turning sideways to Kanos. Kanos raised the hand fully above his head with the orb, then launched it. It flew so fast Nathaniel could barely track it, and it seemed it would impale Catherine through the chest. 
“Ah, shit!” Catherine yelled, raising her hand out in front of her. The orb stopped just before her hand. Cat raised her hand behind the orb, and it began to grow even larger. “I need to paralyze him,” she said to herself.
“William, I need some electricity from Mohireimdar!” She yelled. William pulled the claymore from his back.
“You’ve got it,” he said. “Vohar!”
That word etched itself onto the blade in blue Ayan letters, and the sword Mohireimdar began to hum with energy.
“How much do you need?” He asked.
“Just a little! Bring it here.”
William carried his sword to cat and held it with the tip pointing at the orb she now held floating between both her palms. Kanos stood motionless across the field. From the tip of Mohireimdar, sparks of lightning connected to the orb, which increased its size and began to shimmer. 
“That’s good,” Cat said. She held the orb higher, in front of her eye, which began to emit black wisps similar to those Andus had used to amplify his own attacks months ago at the archives. The orb had now grown substantially, from the size of a fist to the size of Cat’s head. She looked across the clearing to Kanos, still waiting.
“He probably thinks I’m dumb enough to kill him. With luck, that means he’ll tank this head on,” she thought. She didn’t dare say this out loud for fear that Kanos could read her lips, despite his broken use of their language.
“Everyone, get back,” she said, assertively. They all moved behind her. Still Kanos made no sign that he even noticed the orb Cat held. She threw it, and the orb flew faster than the eye could track at Kanos. Now, Kanos held out his arms, and from them the wisps appeared. Though the wisps did not go to creating a second orb. They went to the one flying towards him, which grew in size alarmingly quickly, until it was taller than Kanos himself.
“No!” Cat screamed. The orb slammed into Kanos, detonating and leaving a vile gash in the earth and the forest behind. It took almost half a minute for the smoke to clear, but when it did, Kanos’ corpse laid there in the dirt.
“That took a nice turn,” Claio said.
“No,” said Catherine. “That’s about the worst thing that could’ve happened.”
“What do you mean? He’s dead isn’t he?” Asked Claio.
“Yes,” said William, “but Kanos’ dying doesn’t work like the death of normal people.”
“He’s under the effect of a black magic phenomenon called the Curse of the Scorned. He can die twice a day, and each time he does-”
Footsteps and the rustling of leaves came from behind them, and they all turned to the noise. Nathaniel felt a shiver go down his spine, and felt so much terror he didn’t notice the marks of awakening spread across his arms. Kanos, unscathed, emerged from the forest, his new presence radiating palpable horror. Seraila’s eyes widened.
“That’s impossible!” She cried. Cat nodded.
“He comes back ten times stronger than he was before he died.”
“I can feel his soul,” Seraila said. “It’s more powerful than Andus’ was! Nathan, he’s half as strong as Morten was! If what Catherine says is true, and he dies again-”
“He’ll be five times as strong as the man who fought every druid in history and survived.”
“Not only that, that’s about how strong Seamus was!”
Claio reached into his shirt. The shard hummed to life. Unsheathing his blades, he walked between Kanos and his allies.
“Seraila,” he said. “You can sense how much mana someone has. How do Nathaniel and I—him awakened, myself using the shard—compare to this guy?”
“About... a third as strong, generously. Combine all of us here, and we barely surpass him.”
“Sense. I can, too,” Kanos said. “You lie.”
“What?” Catherine said. “No, I can sense too. I agree with what she said.”
“No, no,” Kanos said. “At now, yes. My level… are you. But Seraila hides.”
“You can tell that? How?” Seraila asked.
“What is she hiding?” William asked, now suspicious of the banshee.
“The word. Said you, sen-se. Rha hogatrirh ‘sense’ mae.”
“What she can sense?” Catherine asked. “Mana?”
“Yes,” said Kanos. “At now, she strong as me.”
“Seraila is?” Claio asked. Everyone looked at her.
“He’s right. But-,” she stopped, looking at Kanos. She leaned to Nathaniel’s ear. “I can’t use all of it,” she whispered. “It’s too high profile. The Fae that keep watch over the undead would come.”
“You are… un-dead?” Kanos asked. Seraila jumped back.
“How’d he hear that?”
“No,” said Kanos. Seraila relaxed slightly, figuring all he knew was that she was undead and nothing more of her specific circumstances.”
“Oh. Well, yes.”
“But I sense not a bind,” he said.
“A… you can sense that?”
“Undead you are. A bind you have not.”
“What does tha-”
Seraila fell to the ground. Kanos had raised his arm out in front of himself.
“I take you.”
Seraila slowly stood up, head and arms hung limp, eyes closed. She slowly walked over to Kanos’ side, then opened her eyes. They were black.
“Seraila?” Asked Nathaniel. Neither she nor Kanos responded. 
“He’s possessed her!” Cat yelled.
“Good,” said Kanos. A loud boom knocked Nathaniel and the others off balance, and when they regained it Kanos and Seraila were gone, replaced by fading, black smoke. All four of them still there stared at the spot while the smoke diffused away into the air.

//XI-I
Tælvérr, Fuur, Semaru

	It was pitch black in this room, save for the dim glow that illuminated the deep red of the blood pool. That glow made the features of both Morten and the Fuuren’s just discernible. Of Morten, all that could be seen were his bare shoulders and up, as the rest of his body was submerged in the pool. The other figure, the Fuuren, wore flowing black garments ornamented with silver fastenings and buttons.
	“Do you know how long it takes to get this much blood?” Asked the Fuuren in his people’s tongue.
	“A while, I’d imagine. I am grateful for your effort, Kaedel. Such commitment is why I’ve chosen yours as my people. We’re almost done, anyway. What’s taking the half-breed so long?” Morten replied, in the same language.
	“I called him. He was in the middle of a fight, though. He wouldn’t leave a fight without at least a little something to show for it.”
	“Should I expect him to try to kill me again?”
	“No. Not while I’m around, anyway.”
	“I don’t see why he bothers. When my body is complete, he wouldn’t be able to defeat me even if he could die three times.”
	“But your body isn’t complete yet, Morten. I’m the only thing stopping both of you from tearing each other apart. Besides, you need him to help you find a suitable candidate to be the final sacrifice.”
	A low hum came from behind Kaedel, and Kanos stepped into the dim light.
	“Took your time,” Morten said. Kanos offered no noticeable response.
	“Kanos,” Kaedel said,  “just before I found you after the fall of Illiston, you said you’d been fought by an exceptionally powerful mage. The last survivor of the House of Mages. Who was that? What was his name, Kanos?”
	“Jaren, my emperor. His name was Jaren,” Kanos said.
	“Is this man still alive?” Emperor Kaedel asked.
	“I believe so, my Emperor.”
	“Do you know where he is?”
	“No, my emperor. But I know where some of his former associates are.”
	“Oh? Where?”
	“The Danelish city of Card, my emperor. I was fighting them before you summoned me here.”
	“I see,” Kaedel said. He glanced behind Kanos. “Who’s this? Who’ve you brought here?”
	“One who was with them. They called this one ‘Seraila,’ my Emperor.”
	“Are you going to be training her?” Kaedel asked.
	“I intend to, my Emperor.”
	“Very well, I’ll allow it. In the meantime, I’ll have High Assassin Caerzel send one of his to find Jaren’s associates,” said Kaedel. “You are dismissed, High Possessor Kanos.”
	
//XI-II
Card, Harrondian Kingdoms, Semaru

It had been a day since Seraila had been taken. Catherine had escorted the four to an inn just inside the gates of Card. The room was rather small, only had a bed for two of them, and not particularly nice, only a small, crooked window, which let through about as much light as a decent lamp, and faded beige walls, but they didn’t care at this point. Nathaniel paced back and forth across the room occasionally muttering a few syllables to himself the others couldn’t understand.
“I don’t understand why he didn’t just kill us,” Claio said.
“I could tell he was going to until the end, when Nathaniel and you powered up and he noticed the reserve of power Seraila was hiding,” Cat said. “He probably has some larger motive, but I still find it odd that he changed his mind just by seeing your power boost. Will and I fought him fifteen years back, when we knew him only as ‘Mask.’ He never spared anyone. If he saw them, they died.”
“He’s clearly different now, Catherine. He’s not wearing a mask anymore, for one thing,” said William. No one said anything after this comment. It wasn’t that William didn’t have a point, that the enemy he and Cat had fought was very much a changed man now, but rather no one could think of anything constructive to pitch in. They languished in that sullen silence for what felt like a decent length of time to them. A hollow bang pulled everyone out of their thoughts for a second. Nathaniel stood over by the wall with the window, fist clenched and planted on its surface.
“We can’t just leave her!” He said. “I want to go after her.”
“What? Nathan, Nathan, Nathan, you understand that she’s probably inside the Black Empire, right?” Claio said.
“Then that’s where I’ll go,” Nathaniel said.
“Nathaniel, I understand this must be hard for you, but you can’t just waltz across the border to Fuur,” William said. “The possession magic that took Seraila is in the air there. It would take an exceedingly powerful black mage, which you aren’t, to go in and not get taken yourself.”
“But I am,” Cat said. Everyone turned their heads to look at her leaning against the wall. “I’m a black mage.” She pointed to her eye, despite her hair resting down and covering it again. “My eye can hold the black radiation at bay, maybe even as far up as Kaerebroel.”
Nathaniel took his fist off the wall and walked over to Cat.
“Can you take me?”
“Yeah, but no one else. Would take too much mana.”
“Works for me.”
“Catherine, wait,” William said. “You aren’t actually going to go as far north as Kaerebroel are you? Can you use your eye for that long? When I last saw you, you had a pretty strict time limit.”
“I was also seven back then, William. I’m a big girl now, who can do big girl black magic. I don’t think we’ll stay up long anyway. It’s a big country, odds we’re gonna run into any useful leads are pretty low. Reason I’m going is ‘cause I wanna see what Nathaniel can do as a druid. A druid’s green mana is the opposite of black mana, and I’ve never actually had a chance to see them interact.”
“So you did finally end up studying the magic theory I wanted you to,” William said. “If you’re sure you’ll make it up there, I trust you. Just don’t go near the city itself, alright?”
“Yeahgotcha.”
“Hey, Cat, I wouldn’t make Nathan your guinea pig,” Claio said.
“Oh, I’m not gonna. Even if I was, he seems tame enough, even for a Naalman.”
“You haven’t seen him fist a death-pod to death,” Claio mumbled. Cat pushed off the wall and held her hand out to Nathaniel.
“Take my hand,” she said. Nathaniel remembered when Seraila had asked him to do the same thing at Cowissk months ago.
“Phasing?” Nathaniel asked.
“Huh? No, I can’t do that. Dark Teleportation is what this is.”
Nathaniel grabbed Cat’s hand. She grinned a bit. 
“Good,” she said. Around them, whips of black smoke sprung to life, accompanied by a faint high-and-climbing shrill.
Nathaniel again felt like he was punched in the gut, much harder than Seraila’s phasing. He felt dizzy and couldn’t make sense of his surroundings for a time, but when his senses cleared he saw he was on his knees at the edge of a forest of dark green trees.
“This is the Danelish border with Fuur,” Cat said.
“I sorta expected a wall or something,” Nathaniel replied.
“No need. Anyone normal who crosses into these woods is gonna end up possessed or dead.” Nathaniel looked up at her from the ground with concerned eyes. She looked down at him.
“We’re not normal. Come on up now, let’s get moving.” Nathaniel pulled himself onto his feet and brushed himself off. Cat took her palm and placed it over her face for a second, taking a deep breath. Slowly, she brushed her hair away from her face. Nathaniel felt a shiver run down his spine. She looked at him now with both eyes.
“Ready?”
“Yeah.”
They started into the dark forest, which turned out to not be so dark, since the trees were spread a fair distance apart, or at least the living ones were. Jagged grey stumps littered the space between the tall old-growths. Nathaniel figured from what he’d learned in his studies at the college that the conditions were so harsh here that the trees that hadn’t been able to find ample room among the taller trees probably were choked out and turned into these wooden teeth.
	“Why’d you port us outside of an uninhabited part of Fuur?” Nathaniel asked. “The trees can’t help us find Seraila.”
	“Well, the parts of the border that are near populated areas do have guards on both sides, and they won’t let anyone cross over. I can’t teleport into the empire because of the ‘fog,’ as we know it here. William said there was black magic in the air, yeah? It’s all across the empire, more heavily in populated areas. It allows them to control their citizens and hold them as mindless thralls, sorta like a hive mind, and also lets them block incoming teleports from all but the ones they want to let in.”
	“Would your eye defending us from the fog cause a disturbance? One of them might be able to find us.”
	“That was the idea, Nathaniel. There’s one watching us right now,” she said. Nathaniel froze, scanning the area around him.
	“You’re very nonchalant about that,” Nathaniel said.
	“Well, sure. Why wouldn’t I be?” She pointed to their right. “She’s right there.”
	Nathaniel followed her finger to the brush next to them, and from it a figure rose into view. A Fuuren, as Cat had said. This was the first time Nathaniel had seen a female Fuuren, though. Her hair was pure white, paler even than her skin, and she had her people’s slitted yellow eyes. She was young, probably around the age of Nathaniel and Cat.
	“Whaddayaknow,” Cat said, “that’s the one I saw earlier, in the spot where we met Kanos.” The Fuuren walked out of the bushes until she was within five feet of the two. She had a steel-looking longblade strapped to her hip. They stared.
	“Where is Jaren?” The Fuuren asked. Cat stepped back.
	“How do you know Jaren?” She asked. She leaned over to Nathaniel.
	“Nathaniel, watch yourself. Any normal Fuuren shouldn’t know how to speak our language,” she said. The Fuuren did not answer Catherine’s question.
	“Where is Jaren?” She asked again.
	“Nathan. Sword. Out.” Cat said. Nathaniel drew Girindar from its sheath around his waist. The Fuuren raised her arm out in front of her.
	“Asking one more time. Where is Jaren?” She said. No one said anything. From her direction, Nathaniel felt a cold draft. With her free hand, the Fuuren drew the longblade from her hip. 
	“Fine,” she said.  The draft’s temperature dropped sharply and grew to a howling gust. The branches of the trees around them sharply bent counterclockwise and began to shake with the rising wind. Thick mist began to flow from the palm of the Fuuren’s hand, spreading and choking the clearing where they stood until quickly Nathaniel was unable to see the Fuuren and just barely see Cat’s silhouette next to him. The mist thickened to snow.
	“Nathan, duck!” Cat yelled, and he spun barely fast enough to see and dodge the glint of the Fuuren’s blade coming for his head. She was close enough now for Nathaniel to see her figure in the blizzard. He took his hand with Girindar and lunged for the shadow. It clinked against steel and the shadow leaped back out of view.
	“Stand next to me, you dip!” Cat shouted. Nathan scurried to the sound of her voice, and found that the snow was much less dense immediately next to her. “My eye can keep back some of the snow,” she said. “I think she uses it like the Fog I told you about. She can tell where you are within the snowstorm while cutting off most of your sight and hearing”
	“Do you not have a weapon?” Nathan asked, yelling over the sound of the storm. Cat held up her dominant arm and conjured a wooden staff out of black.
	“Do now,” she said. They stood back to back, still struggling to see the Fuuren despite Cat’s attempt to lessen the storm. The brightness of the snow dimmed for a brief second.
	“Above!” Nathaniel shouted, raising Girindar into an upward parry. It locked with the Fuuren’s longblade. From under her shirt the woman pulled a shiv and shoved it towards Nathaniel’s eye. Nathaniel crashed onto the soil, the Fuuren flying back into the mist. For a moment, Nathaniel caught a glimpse of blood on her cheek. 
	“I got a mark on her with that blow!” Cat yelled. “I’ll give you her location, here!”
	A shiver shot down Nathan’s spine. Though he could not see or hear her, he was now aware of her location the same way he knew the position of his arm without looking. He couldn’t tell how she was positioned, but he could tell where and in what direction she was going. He gripped his blade tightly and moved out towards her, watching for her silhouette to come into view. He saw the shade ahead and swung at it. The silhouette countered and Girindar clashed with her steel again. He saw the other arm swing with the shiv and he jumped back, swinging back around behind him to lash at her side, but she spun faster. Her shiv lodged itself in Nathaniel's arm, which began to drip blood. He jammed his boot into the Fuuren’s stomach and launched her off, removing the shiv in the process. He felt part of his bone get torn from its place. Blood gushed out, and Nathaniel clenched the wound, setting his mind to healing it. The wound was severe enough that he couldn’t do it so quickly, he’d have to fight through the pain and heal it slowly unless he wanted to be killed here. He felt the Fuuren woman get up, so he took his bloody palm off the gash trying to ignore the stinging. The woman swung at him again, this time he parried hard enough to throw her off balance for a second.
	“Nathan, I’m in your head, it’s Cat.”
	“What?” Nathaniel yelled.
	“Don’t say anything,” said Cat’s voice. “Just get down when I say so.”
	Nathaniel was confused by Cat talking to him from inside of his head, but he took note of what she told him. He leaped at the Fuuren woman’s location again, who this time leaped out of the way and swung her blade back. Nathaniel took her edge on his blade, holding her there in a deadlock.
	“Down, now!” yelled Cat’s voice. Nathaniel pushed off of the woman’s blade and slammed onto the rocky soil.
	“Death Ball!” Cat screamed from behind him. A black ball flew over his face so fast the air pressure forced him against the ground and popped his ears. The Fuuren screamed, Nathaniel feeling her shoot away into the trees outside the clearing. The ground shook for a beat, then stopped. The snow began to disperse, and again Nathaniel could make out the forest around them. The first few trees in the direction Cat had fired her ball had been blasted into shards of grey bark now littering the ground around the stumps.
	“Death Ball? Really?” Nathaniel asked.
	“Look, I named it when I was seven,” she said, bashfully for herself. They both looked to the gash.
	“She’s getting up,” Nathaniel said.
	“Be ready. I dunno how effective that ball was.”
	The Fuuren pushed aside a pile of tree limbs and pulled herself up from the gash. With the snow gone, she was plainly visible. It was clear that Cat’s attack had been very effective. The woman was now dripping blood from several different areas, mostly her face, and sported dark bruises on both her arms. One arm hung limp at her side, the odd shape at the top suggesting her shoulder was dislocated. Nathaniel glanced over at Cat.
	“Should I—”
	“No, wait,” Cat interrupted. “Something else is coming.”
	“What? Who?”
	“Behind her.”
	Nathaniel looked as Cat said, seeing that black had begun to swirl behind her, rising and growing in density and speed. The cloud formed to the shape of a man, then became the Fuuren with the scar across his nose. Both Nathaniel and Cat froze.
	“Cat, that’s the man who killed Seraila back home.”
	“A Fuuren killed Seraila? In Sa’aru?”
	“He attacked me just before I left, too.”
	“Nathan, I don’t think we can fight these two.”
	They both stood frozen and stared at the two Fuuren who opposed them. The female coughed up blood.
	“Tara, Ñiizeil,” said the male. The woman nodded, and faded into black mist. “Nathaniel, Catherine. I’m impressed you managed to best one of my most skilled assassins. Tara is usually very efficient. I’ll give you one more chance to give me the location of Jaren Jarei. If you refuse, I will kill you.”
	Catherine stepped forward with incredible urgency.
	“Are you Caerzel?”
	“I am. Talk or don’t.”
	Cat’s breaths came quick and shallow.
	“I don’t know where Jaren is,” she said. She walked up to him and put her hands on his shoulders. She seemed like she was going to cry. “I’ve—haven’t seen him for fourteen years now. Not since shortly after we fought Kanos.” She was pleading now. Caerzel jabbed her square in the chest and knocked her away.
	“I believe you,” Caerzel said. “If that’s all the information you have, there’s no reason to keep you alive. Nathaniel especially. You’d be a thorn in Morten’s side.”
	“Leave them be,” a deep, steady voice came from behind. Nathaniel turned his head and met with Seamus’ blank eyes. Seamus did not seem to take any notice of Nathaniel by way of looking, though that was normal for him. Nor did he even glance at Caerzel, which Caerzel noticed. His brows furrowed and he glared at Seamus.
	“You’re the one Morten talked about aren’t you? The old god? Am I not good enough for your gaze?” He snapped. Seamus turned his head and looked straight at him.
	“My eyes are redundant, Fuuren. I can see three-hundred and sixty degrees around me without them. I don’t have a reason to turn my head. If your ego is so fragile as to shatter when one doesn’t explicitly acknowledge your presence, I shall look at you.”
	“I’m as strong as Morten was when you last fought him,” Caerzel seethed. “I could take you on.”
	“No.”
	“What?”
	“You would die very quickly.”
	Caerzel stepped back, fingers grasping a hilt under his cloak.
	“If you’re that strong, give a demonstration.”
	“No.”
	“Well, if you won’t willingly—”
	“I can tell you’re about to leap. And you’re priming a high-energy spell in your left hand. You’re planning to jump at me, swing to make me dodge, then fire the spell at my head,” Seamus said. Caerzel took his hand off his sword and stood back up straight, some red showing in his face.
	“You won’t live much longer, old one,” Caerzel said. He swished his hand and misted away as the one he called Tara had done. Nathaniel and Catherine stood watching as the black faded away.
	“Why did you cross the border?” Seamus asked. Neither of the two could provide an answer. 
	“I do not know you to be foolish, Nathaniel. You had a reason for entering, what was it?”
	Nathaniel glanced down at his feet. “They took Seraila,” he said.
	“You allowed a nightborn to be taken by the Black Empire?”
	“A nightborn? That’s a different kind of undead, right? Seraila’s a banshee. I’ve not even heard of that.”
	“You weren’t aware?”
	“Aware of?”
	“That Seraila was born undead. One of her parents was a vampire, from what I could sense. She had her vampirism cured, so it would stand to reason that no one besides a very skilled magical sensor would know unless she told them. Despite her being cured, she retained a host of benefits from her birth, not the least of which is an unusually large reservoir of mana. How was she taken?”
	“She was taken by a half-fuuren named Kanos,” Catherine said.
	“I have heard of him, the Fuuren High Possessor, but I know little about him other than that he works with Morten. Do you know anything of note?”
	“He has this ability—he has to be killed three times in under a day in order to truly die. And he gets a massive power boost each time he dies.”
	“I know the ability. It is not uniquely his, although it is very rare. It is the curse of the scorned. The fact that someone with this effect has entered the field is a major threat. How powerful is he in his first phase?”
	“Strong enough to challenge me, Cat, Claio, Seraila, and William at once with no backup.”
	“Then I will go into Fuur and kill Kanos myself. I don’t think there’s anyone else on our side of this conflict who can.”
	“Seamus, are you sure?” Nathaniel asked. “You’re the most powerful person in history, sure, but Morten’s plotting a way to kill you. Caerzel just hinted at it before he ported away.”
	“He won’t be able to. When I first rescued you from him, his body was weaker than it was when we fought two-thousand years ago. Caerzel was not near that level, and I doubt Kanos is either. Unless he reacquires his old strength, I am in little danger.”
	“Why don’t you just do that for Morten? You’re the creator. Can’t you just will them out of existence?” Nathaniel asked.
	“No, it’s not that simple. I lost that level of control shortly after I was sealed in this body. As for Morten, like you said, he is planning to kill me. To seek him out directly would be dangerous for me. I doubt, however, seeking out Kanos would put me in the way of much danger. Those so mistreated as to attain the Curse of the Scorned usually aren’t like to stay around others, even those they are in league with.”
	“Am I supposed to just sit here while you deal with Kanos? Isn’t the purpose of my existence to fight these people?”
	“In a sense. Druidism is a failsafe to combat imbalance in Yjaru, generally relating to black magic, but not necessarily. So yes, in this case your purpose is keep Morten in check, presumably by killing him. But Kanos’ survival is a major obstacle to any progress you could make on your own. Stay in Card. Once Kanos is defeated, we can discuss how to progress.”
	“I suppose you’d know best.”
	“I am going now. Expect this to take a few days at least.”
	“Will do,” Nathaniel said. Seamus turned and left the way he came, striding quickly into the woods.
	“Let’s get out of here,” Catherine said.
//XII
Card, Harrondian Kingdoms, Semaru

	Catherine’s teleportation ability allowed them to return to Card with the same ease with which they’d left. This time they ended up outside the gates of the city rather than right back in the room they’d left from—Cat had told Nathaniel it was dangerous to try and port into small, enclosed spaces. Nathaniel paid special attention to the fact that the walls of Card were wooden, probably because they expected to have more trouble with the wild animals of the surrounding forest rather than an actual siege by an army of men. They both walked into the crowd moving through the open, mossy gates, and arrived in little time at the plain-looking building that was the inn the others were staying in.
	Inside and up to the second floor they went, where they wearily opened the door to their room. It was apparent that the room was now considerably more full that when they’d left it. A familiar dark-skinned elf ran up and shook Nathaniel by the shoulders.
	“You went into the black empire? You made sure to be careful? What wards did you bring? Do you feel dizzy? Delirious? Angry?”
	“Gael, calm down. The woman next to him’s gotta be the black mage he went with. William said she really knows her black magery,” said Daniel. Gael let go of Nathaniel.
	“I know, but it doesn’t hurt to make sure,” he said, turning back to his fellow mage.
	“How’d it go?” William asked.
	“Not great,” Catherine replied.
	“How so?” William inquired again.
	“We barely got into the country before having two close fights,” Nathaniel said. “We might’ve lost the second one—with one of Morten’s higher-ups—had Seamus not shown up and stopped it before it could begin. We didn’t get any information about Seraila, either, or on anything else for that matter.”
	“That you know of,” Cat said, smirking.
	“Huh?” Jected Nathaniel.
	“We didn’t get any information that you know of,” Cat said. “You remember when Caerzel first came, I went up and grabbed his shoulder, right?”
	“Yeah, I do,” he said, a little confused. Cat tilted back her head and laughed.
	“I wasn’t actually so distraught that I’d walk up to him and plead like that. I had to touch him in order to put a mark on him.” Daniel jumped up from his seat.
	“You put a mark on one of Morten Yol’s closest men? Is it stable?”
	“Of course.”
	“And he didn’t notice?”
	“Well, it’s still there, so I’d say no.”
	“This is great! Nathaniel, this might be the best thing that’s happened since your beating Andus!” Daniel exclaimed, looking at his friend. Nathaniel, however, along with Claio, just stared blankly. Gael poked Daniel on the shoulder.
	“Daniel, you’re talking to non-mages. They have no idea what you’re talking about.” Daniel went a little red.
	“Oh. Well, a mark is two things. You can teleport right to it from anywhere, for one, and that’s the most common use. Depending on the type, though, the mark can actually transmit information. Sound typically, but, uh, also, like, information about the stuff nearby. Room it’s in, people, some limited vision, it’s quite versatile.”
	“Mine can do all that,” Cat said, proudly.
	“Will you be able to use it with that man—Caerzel—inside of the fog?” William asked. “You know it-”
	“Yes, Will, I read your books. The mark blends with Caerzel’s natural mana. It won’t get caught by the fog.”
	“Oh. Well, good.”
	“So, we can spy on Morten, that’s what I’m getting,” Nathaniel said.
	“I can,” Cat said. “I’d like a quiet place where I can focus quietly for a while, though. One of the mages should stay with me, though, in case there are any complications.”
	“I’ll do it,” said Gael. “Protective magic is my speciality, especially against black magic.”
	“Ooh, perfect. Now to find a place.”
	“I don’t see why we four can’t leave the room for a bit,” Claio said. “It’s the middle of the afternoon. You can have the room for a bit.”
	“If that’s okay with the rest of you, works great,” Cat said. Nathaniel, Daniel, and William all nodded their agreement.
	“Great. Come back in an hour or so, yeah?”
	“Will do,” Claio said. Those four filed out the old door and shut it gently behind them, heading for the stairs down. A bang came from upstairs before they even reached the front door.
	“Everyone! Come back! Quick!” Came Cat’s voice. The four exchanged quick, wide-eyed glances, and sprinted back upstairs and into the room. Gael stood on the back wall looking confused but otherwise calm, while Catherine seemed on the verge of hyperventilation.
	“What happened?” Nathaniel asked.
	“They’re coming,” Cat said, panting. “They’re coming—to invade the Harrondian Kingdoms! They’re gonna cross the border to Danel in forty-eight hours!”
	“Forty-eight?” William exclaimed. “How can they have that kind of turnaround?”
	“I don’t know—that’s not even important now! We need to tell the countess! Card might be the northernmost city in Danel, but there are farmers and their families living alone farther north, they’ll be slaughtered!”
	“I’ll go tell her, then,” said William. “I know the court librarian. I should be able to get an audience.”
	“Go quick,” Cat said. William hurried out the door behind them. Cat glanced to Daniel by the doorway. 
	“Can you guys help defend?”
	“Naturally,” Daniel said. “The White are more than prepared to fight the Fuuren.”
	“The White?” Cat asked.
	“Oh. Yeah. That’s the name we came up with. We’re all trained to counter black magic. And white’s the opposite of black, so…”
	“That’s some quality two-bit symbolism there. Regardless, how many are there?”
	“Thirty-five,” Daniel said.
	“Thirty-seven, with him and I included,” Gael said.
	“Fine. You should make sure they’re ready. Claio, can you fight?” Asked Catherine, somewhat pointedly. He furrowed his brow a bit.
	“Me? Yeah?” Claio said.
	“You didn’t have an opportunity to demonstrate that for me during the fight against Kanos. Would you say you’re up to a fight like this?”
	“More than.”
	“I saw him hold his own against ten well-trained men when I first met him. Claio’ll do fine,” Nathaniel said.
	“I trust your word. You both, but you specifically, Nathan, should get some rest. Take the bed. I’ll wake you when William comes back.”
	“Alright,” Nathaniel agreed, noting his own fatigue. He looked over to Claio.
	“You take the bed, Nathan. I’m fine on the floor. My bed when I was little was an old table and a blanket.”
	“If you’re sure.”
	Nathaniel pulled himself into the bed, and although he was tired he found himself unable to sleep. Anxiousness and racing thoughts kept him halfway between waking and slumber. At some point he opened his eyes and found the room dark—light no longer came in through the crooked window. He sat up.
	“You’re awake,” Claio said. He was sitting, leaning on the wall opposite the bed. 
	“What time is it?” Nathaniel asked.
	“An hour or so before sunrise. We decided to let you sleep.”
	“What’s the plan?”
	“Come with me,” Claio said, standing up. “I’ll give you the gist on the way.”
	Claio led Nathaniel out of the room and outside into the frigid night. He steered their path towards the northern gate.
	“So?” Nathaniel asked.
	“In short, all the countries this side of the kingdoms collectively shit themselves.”
	“How’s our outlook?”
	“Not awful, actually. The Harrondians, especially the northerners, all take the Fuuren threat very seriously from what I’ve heard, so they have some massive military reserves to draw from.”
	“That’s good. Where are we going?”
	“Some local mages have set up a teleportation site just outside the gates. They plan to meet the Fuuren army a ways north of where we fought Kanos. There’s a camp there where the others are waiting.”
	“Got it,” said Nathaniel. As they came to the open area just before the gates, the streets that had been empty began to fill with men and women wearing blue-and-brown military uniform.
	“Are we allowed to be here?” Asked Nathaniel, eying the personnel.
	“It’s a public street, man. Even if we weren’t, they have bigger problems right now.”
	“But we are allowed to be here, right?” Nathaniel said. Claio squinted at him.
	“Nathan, you’re the most important person in this situation. Of course you’re allowed here. Look over there,” he pointed, to where a small group of men in uniform quickly looked away, “these people have all heard about you. You’re the druid. You’re the symbol of this effort. Despite it being old history, the whole Druids-vs-the-Darkness deal is an inspiring story for them.”
	Nathaniel looked around at the soldiers as they walked into the bulk of them. Some of them didn’t seem to be doing anything, just hanging around and chatting with their brothers-in-arms, mostly towards the walls and the fringes of the group. The closer towards the center of the street, where Nathaniel and Claio walked, men hurried about lugging equipment and munitions around to be loaded onto sturdy wooden carts scattered about the plaza. One, a Harrondian woman carrying a batch of swords wrapped in cloth over her shoulder, stopped when she passed Nathaniel. She looked at him wide-eyed for a second.
	“You’re the druid, aren’t you?”
	“I suppose so,” Nathaniel smiled. The woman stuck out her free hand, and Nathaniel shook it.
	“We won’t let you down, sir!” The woman said, with pride. She gave a quick salute and sprinted back off past them.
	“See?” Said Claio.
	“I do,” Nathaniel said.
	“Oi, you two!” Came Cat’s voice from out the gates.
	“That’s Cat, can you see her?” Nathaniel asked, tilting up his head.
	“You’re taller than I am. If you can’t, I can’t,” retorted Claio. Nathaniel noticed a wooden staff poke out above the crowd.
	“She’s over there,” he said, pointing. “I can see her staff.”
	They moved now through the gate, pushing through increasingly tightly packed soldiers. Once they’d cleared past the gate itself, the density of the soldiers dropped sharply as there was more room to spread out in the exterior. Cat stood far to the back of the crowd, out of the way of any of the personnel.
	“Cat, if you were gonna be awake anyway, why’d I have to be the one watching Nathan?” Claio asked.
	“ ‘Cuz you’re good at taking orders,” she smirked.
	“What? I am? Where’d you-”
	“I kid, I kid,” she said, smiling. She made eye contact with Nathaniel and gave him a little nod. She pointed to her left. “That’s the teleportation point,” she said. “It’ll take us to the camp. The others are waiting there. C’mon.”
	Cat waved for the other two to follow, and they did so willingly. The teleportation point was two mages, both donning blue-and-brown robes that matched the uniform of the footsoldiers, standing around the dimly-glowing, rosé outline of a rectangle in the soil. They watched the three as they approached, particularly Catherine. She gave the mages a nod, which they returned, then stepped aside and held out their arms over the rectangle. It brightened, and began to emit a staticky hum. The mages nodded to the three again. Catherine led the other two, stepping inside the glowing rectangle before Nathaniel and Claio did the same and stood by her sides.
	“Remain still,” said the mage on their right. Nathaniel felt the now-somewhat-familiar gut-punch again, though it didn’t affect him so severely now that he had similarly transported twice before. They now stood in an entirely different locale, though soldiers still marched around as intently as on the other side. Here, they were on a hill looking north over a dark green tundra, interspersed with small swaths of crisp snow, which seemed to have no end to the east or west and only to the north where it met the forest on the border and the mountains farther behind. Around them and in front of them, running down the crest of the hill, were tents; most of them blue, particularly the farther down the hill they were, but a few closer towards them were a bright orange. Nathaniel noticed that the orange tents tended to be larger and had some form of adornment of the fabric.
	“Do the colors of the tents mean something?” Nathaniel asked.
	Cat said. “The blue tents are for the average soldiers. The orange tents are for the higher ups.”
	“Please step off the teleporter,” said a mage next to them. Nathaniel apologized for loitering there as they stepped forward and out of the way. 
	“Why orange?” Nathaniel asked.
	“Dunno,” replied Cat said.
	“Orange is the traditional color of Harrondian and Dzaki royalty,” said William, emerging from the crowd over to the side. “Orange was the color of the flag of their parent empire.”
	“Thanks, Will,” Cat snarked, but her voice held an unmistakable hint of admiration.
	“Mm,” responded William. “Nathaniel, Claio, you’re wanted in that tent behind you.”
	Nathaniel turned and saw the tent, the only one set up behind the teleporter, and by far the largest of any that were here.
	“Just go in,” said William. Nathaniel walked up to it. The tent appeared to be three tents attached together side-by-side, and warm orange glow seeped through the opening. He pulled aside one of the flaps of the entrance and entered. The inside was very well lit, and rather spacious. In the center of the room was a long, dark wooden table with silver candles placed at even intervals down the center. Behind the back of the table stood a Harrondian woman wearing an elaborate, regal looking light blue garment which was not overly suited to combat but wasn’t that movement-restrictive either.  She was leaning over a wide sheet of parchment, a map, with two armored guards at her sides. Nathaniel walked into the room aways and stood just in front of the table unsure of what to do with himself. The woman looked up and across the table.
	“Druid?” She asked, rather sternly. Nathaniel nodded. The woman still looked at him expectantly.
	“Yes… ma’am?” Nathaniel ask-said. The woman stood up straight. 
	“Close enough. I’m the general.”
	“Should I call you the general, or is there a name I should refer to you by?” Asked Nathaniel. The two guards next to her stirred, their hands reaching for the weapons strapped to their waists. Nathaniel stepped back.
	“At ease,” said the General. “He’s Sa’aran. He doesn’t know the rule.” Her guards returned to their upright position. “In the Harrondian Kingdoms, most of us do not like to give out our names to casual acquaintances, and it is generally considered rude to ask, particularly of an authority or on the first time you are meeting someone. With casual acquaintances or inferiors, we go by trade or ranks. Call me General.”
	“Sorry, General.”
	“Very good. But you’re not here to talk about Harrondian cultural norms. Nor do we have time for it. I’ve decided what we’re going to do with you during the battle.”
	“What do you mean?”
	“Well, we can’t exactly put you out on the front lines.”
	“I can fight, general.”
	“That’s irrelevant. No matter how much healing you can pull of, you’re dead out there. Simple as that. If you weren’t the druid, I wouldn’t care. But you’re the champion of these men. We can’t have you dying. Keeping the soldiers’ morales up is as important as feeding them if you want to keep them effective.”
	“I’m just staying at the encampment, then.”
	“For the start of the battle, yes. You’re our last resort.”
	“For the whole battle? I can’t fight an army, General.”
	“Not for the army. If Zevnaton appears.”
	“You expect him to?”
	“I don’t know, but I’m prepared for the possibility. Historically, the Fuuren always send in a VIP if the tide of the battle turns away from them. I intend to win this battle. And so, I expect them to send that VIP. Even if it ends up not being Zevnaton, its your job. From what I’ve heard, you’re experienced in dealing with the Fuuren elites in small-group combat. I want you at full strength if we need you to do that. So, no going out into the fray.”
	“Am I alone expected to fight someone like that?”
	“No. I’ll let you keep two attaches with you, out of the battle unless you’re needed to tend to an emergency.”
	“If I’m fighting Zevnaton or a Fuuren elite, I want William and Catherine. They know black magic.”
	“Hm, you can take William, but I can’t give up Catherine. She’s a good mage. We need good mages to maintain barriers and support the foot soldiers with ranged attacks.”
	“The Dzak Elf, Gael?”
	“Who? There are a lot of Dzaks here.”
	“The one with the mages from my continent.”
	“Same deal, can’t spare any mages. Not against Fuuren.”
	“Claio, then?”
	“The Ayan? Sure, he’s yours. I want you to spend time going around the camp. If you have any advice on fighting Fuuren, spread it around, but all I need you to do is have a presence. Chat with some people. I’ll have them set a small tent up for you, also.”
	“I’ll take my leave now, then?”
	“Yes.”
	Nathaniel turned then and walked back through the folds of the tent. A warm red glow now seeped from the horizon onto the sky that had been full black last he saw it. William walked up to him from his left—he’d been waiting for Nathaniel outside the tent.
	“How’d it go?”
	“Well enough. You shoulda told me about how Harrondians feel about names before you sent me to talk to an official, though,” Nathaniel laughed.
	“Names?” He paused, thinking. “Oh, sorry. It’s just so second-nature to me I forget to mention it. More importantly, though, are you going to be in the battle?”
	“Not immediately, no,” Nathaniel said. He recounted to William the specifics that the general had given him.
	“That’s reasonable,” said William. “So, I’m with you, then?”
	“That’s the idea.”
	“Well, we’ve a day. Want to come chat with some of the mages with me?”
	“Sure.”
	“Great. I believe Catherine’s over there as well. Come.”
	William took Nathaniel through the encampment, which seemed to have calmed down a little, probably because the men were getting taking a break to eat now that dawn had broken. A ways down the hill, where only the common man’s blue tents stood, a crackling flame burned in a large fire pit about a foot into the ground, surrounded by smooth grey stones. Around the pit were scattered three benches, one which Claio sat on and another on which Daniel and Gael sat. Catherine laid on the ground, perpendicular to the flame.
	“Hello, all,” William said. He took a seat on the last remaining bench. Claio gestured to Nathaniel to sit beside him, but he declined and sat on the ground about about a quarter of the way around the circle from Catherine.
	“You want a drink, Will?” Catherine asked.
	“It’s six in the morning?” William replied.
	“We’ve all been up for a full day almost, who cares what time the world thinks it is?” William smirked at Catherine’s line of thought.
	“Touché, but I don’t really drink,” William said.
	“Hm, alrighty then,” Cat said, taking a sip from a cup that she’d been holding at her hip. Nathaniel glanced at the drink, which Catherine didn’t notice, although Gael did.
	“Do you drink, Nathaniel?” He asked.
	“Not excessively, but every once in awhile, yeah.”
	“Good man,” Gael said. “Want some if this? It’s a Janangese drink, served warmed. It’s pretty good for up here in the cold.”
	“Sure, I’ll have a drink,” said Nathaniel. Gael motioned to Catherine, who grabbed a larger tankard that had been sitting behind the fire and filled a cup with the clear-brown liquid from it. Nathaniel grasped it. The warmth of the cup reminded him how cold he was up here. He inched a little closer to the fire and took a sip.
	“We were talking about our upbringings,” Claio said.
	“Correction,” interjected Gael, “Claio and Catherine were competing to see who had the most hardcore childhood.”
	“Which I clearly did,” Catherine said, putting up her hand.
	“Nuh-uh, you had freedom. I didn’t get to go outside unsupervised until I was fourteen,” Claio said.
	“I was homeless, and my parents abandoned me the day after I was born. You lived in an underground castle.”
	“The parents I had sent me out on hits that could’ve left me dead since I was eight. And my grandfather to this day wants me dead.”
	“I lived on the streets unsupported since the day I turned five. You know how many men’ve tried to force themselves on me since then? Eighty-four. You know how many of them got their assess handed to them before they could even get close? Eighty-four.”
	“Let’s, uh, stay friendly, yeah?” Said Daniel. “We should be, you know, thinking happy thoughts now.”
	“Daniel’s right. What about the rest of us? William, where are you from?”
	“The southern part of this country. A rural forest village, with not much to do in the way of entertainment, besides hunt I suppose, but do too much of that and we’d drive the herds away. My father knew a lot about the world though. Told me stories and legends every night. He was a ranger. A real self-made man. He could hunt and survive off the land for as long as he wanted, and he knew surgery, so he was very important to our town. He died when I was eleven, but he taught me a lot of useful skills before he did. I suppose I could be a ranger too, if I wanted. Those stories he told me gave me a certain love for the world outside. I took the survival skills he taught me and went on to become an archaeologist.”
	“Reminds me a little of my father and I,” Gael said.
	“Oh? What’s your father like?” William asked.
	“He’s a smith. The only smith in probably a hundred mile radius, too. We’re from Ziilki, which is the northernmost Emirate in Dzak. My father got major job security for volunteering to be the smith at a military outpost in the Tel desert. For the foreigners, the Tel is not a particularly fun place to live. Really dry, really hot. One summer it was so bad that my father had the soldiers pay for their weapons with water. Anyway, my father and his family had somewhat of a celebrity status in the area. He got to meet a lot of interesting people who were in the military, and I got to meet them sometimes, too. I met a mage one day, and we were talking about magic. On a hunch, the mage did a little magic-aptitude test on me. That’s how we found out I was abnormally good with magic, eighty-seventh percentile affinity, and how I ended up getting a scholarship to Cowissk. How I met this dweeb.” Gael lightly elbowed Daniel in the rib.
	“Ow.”
	“Nathaniel,” said Gael, “you grew up with Daniel, right? Was he always like he is now?”
	“No,” Nathaniel laughed. “When we were really young he was actually pretty loud. His family owned the inn, and he’d always run around all the tables and talk to the customers. He’d bring me along sometimes too.”
	“My mother hated that,” Daniel said, tilting up his head in recollection. “She started yelling at me for it once I turned ten or so. Can’t say I blame her, though. I don’t think the people who came to drown their sorrows in drink appreciated the ecstatic ginger boy coming around and trying to fish out their life’s stories.”
	“Sure, but even after you got shy, the customers would still talk to you,” Nathaniel said. “I can’t count the number of times I’d walk in to find you getting talked at by some regular.”
	“Nowadays you can’t get him to listen for anything when he’s reading one of his books,” said Gael. “Which he always is.”
	“Well, it was one of those regulars who gave me my first magic book,” Daniel said. “Nathaniel was somewhat bookish from birth, though.”
	“That’s true. Seraila was the loud one of us,” Nathaniel said. Daniel averted his eyes, and Nathaniel remembered what he was fighting for. 
	“Do we have any idea where she is?” Claio asked.
	“No, unless Catherine’s heard anything.”
	“I heard her name mentioned, actually. I don’t know in what context. My understanding of the Fuuren language isn’t too hot. Also, I haven’t heard anything in a while. I think the mark wore off.”
	“That’s unfortunate, but at least it lasted long enough to warn us of this attack,” William said.
	“Claio,” Nathaniel said, “you’re staying behind with William and I during the battle. The Fuuren are expected to send in a strong fighter late in the battle. That’s our job to handle.”
	“Hm? Alright then, fine by me I guess, I prefer small-scale combat anyway,” Claio said. 
	“Claio, I’ve never seen you use magic. Besides the shard, which isn’t your own mana.”
	“Yeah, that’s because I can’t. Non-magicism runs in my family.”
	“I’ve seen you fight mages though, and your combat capability is way higher than I’d expect a non-magicist’s to be. When I first met you I saw you leap a good seven feet in the air. How do you do that?”
	“A lifetime of physical training. I make use of driving, though. Way more than the average person should be able to.”
	“Is that… a drug?” Nathaniel asked. Claio squinted at him for a second, then widened his eyes.
	“I suppose it isn’t common knowledge. Driving is one of the very few magical techniques that anyone can do, even complete non-magicists like me.”
	“Or,” added Catherine, “people who don’t have blue magic, like me.”
	“Can you do it?” Claio asked.
	“Oh yeah I can,” Catherine said, rising to her feet. She held her arm straight up towards the sky, then inhaled deeply. Nathaniel heard a small boom; his hair blew back as if hit by a small gust of wind. He didn’t see it move, but Catherine’s arm had now returned down do her side. Catherine rubbed the arm that had been in the air.
	“Ow,” she said. “Haven’t done that in a while.”
	“Yeah, it hurts if you haven’t practiced it,” Claio said. “The reason people like Catherine and I can use it is because it’s simple enough that it can be performed with just the trace magic in the air. You move the magic you inhale into a muscle, then let it go. It makes your muscles twitch much faster and harder than they would normally be able to. Good for quick bursts of power, and its how I jumped so high, but use it too much and you’ll tear your muscles.”
	“I can’t use blue magic either,” Nathaniel said. “Since I’m a druid. I have green magic. Could I learn this?”
	“I imagine you could, but I wouldn’t start right now. Not a good idea to inju—,” Claio paused, widening his eyes, “—wait. Wait, wait, wait. You’re a druid. You can heal minor injuries to yourself, no problem. That means… if you learned how to drive, you could use it without worrying about permanent damage! Imagine the potential!”
	“I don’t think I’ve seen you this excited before, Claio,” Nathaniel said. “I imagine said potential is fairly large.”
	“We’ve got well over half a day before the battle starts,” Claio said. “I want to see if I can teach it to you. Wanna try?”
	“Let’s do it,” said Nathaniel.



	It would’ve been getting near noon now, but it was hard to tell through the thick mat of clouds the covered the sky. Nathaniel and Claio had moved west, not far outside the encampment, but far enough that they were surrounded by well over a hundred feet of tundra on all sides.
	“Can you make sparks?” Claio asked. Nathaniel held a single finger up. A few red sparks jumped out from the tip.
	“That’s like asking if I know how to snap,” Nathaniel said.
	“Well, you’d be surprised,” Claio said. “This at least proves you have the minimum knowledge required for me to teach you this. First, though, you sure you can heal yourself?”
	Nathaniel unsheathed Girindar from its hilt and dragged the sharp end of the blade along the palm of his hand, making a tiny cut just enough to draw some blood. He winced at the sting. His iris flashed a light green, and a faint aura of the same color enveloped his bleeding palm. Inside it, the cut shrunk and closed itself in a matter of seconds.
	“Didn’t you use to have trouble with healing?” Claio inquired.
	“I didn’t just do nothing on that two month boat trip,” Nathaniel said.
	“That’s good,” Claio said. “It means there shouldn’t be any harm in teaching you now. I’m gonna start you by teaching you how to make large movements, nothing dependant on fine motor skills. These are the easiest to learn, but also the easiest to hurt yourself with.”
	“What kind of injury should I expect to get? Zace taught me way back that I can heal almost any injury, but I can’t regrow anything that’s completely gone. So, I’m not at risk of losing an arm here, am I?”
	“Not a chance, ‘less you don’t have a skeleton. Any injuries are gonna be confined to muscle tissue”
	“Alright, so what do I do?”
	“The same thing Catherine did. Watch me,” said Claio. He held his arm straight in the air, and in a sudden burst of movement snapped it down to his side. “Not much different than making sparks. But you have to build the energy inside your upper arm, as compared to the very tip of the finger.”
	“Isn’t there some certain thing I need to do? Could you explain it better?”
	“Can you explain how you move your arm?”
	“Touché.”
	“Just try it. It comes easier than you think.”
	Nathaniel raised his arm straight up in the air. He looked at it there for a second, squinted, then looked at Claio.
	“Yeah, it’s certainly in the air,” Claio said. “Now do the thing.”
	Nathaniel took a deep breath. He tried to envision what Claio had told him: in the muscle of the upper arm. Making sparks required a sort of tingling sensation on the tip of the finger making the sparks, so he focused and tried to get that same sensation in his arm. His muscle tensed up like it was lifting something heavy. He felt that sensation now. In his mind, he counted down. Three, two, one.
	His arm didn’t move very much, but it sure hurt a lot. He fell to his knees and clenched his arm. His eyes flashed green as he tried to heal it.
	“Congratulations, you can injure yourself at will,” Claio said. “You have a get-out-free pass for any social event you don’t wanna go to. But that’s not super helpful against someone trying to kill you.”
	Nathaniel rose to his feet, the pain having subsided and the tear healed.
	“Don’t worry about it. I hurt myself a lot when I was first learning. Granted, I was seven.”
	“Thanks for the encouragement,” Nathaniel muttered, unamused.
	“Anytime. Now, let’s have another go. The Fuuren ain’t gonna wait for us to get this down.”
	“That they aren’t,” said Nathaniel, raising his arm. He hurt himself again, falling to his knees as he had before, healing it, and standing up again.
	“Again… again… again,” Claio would say each try. The sun moved from peeking over the forests to the west to hovering unobstructed in the center of the sky as they worked.
	“You’re getting there,” Claio said. “You’ve got your arm moving. You just need to work on control. Once you get that down, it won’t hurt anymore.”
	“It hurts less now,” Nathaniel said, huffing and drenched in sweat despite the bitter cold that stung his cheeks. “Still not fun.”
	“I had to take hours or days between attempts when I was learning. Your druidic healing is making this suck a lot less than it normally would.”
	“You’re sure you can’t tell me anything else that would help?”
	“No. But, now that I think about it, I have an idea that might help you get the feeling down.”
	“What’s that?”
	“Put your arm up again. This will either help you perform it perfectly, or hurt like a bitch. Probably both.”
	“How exciting,” Nathaniel snarked, though he did as Claio asked. Claio moved over beside Nathaniel’s risen arm.
	“Hold still,” he said. Claio raised his hand, holding out his middle and index fingers while rolling in the others. He pushed his fingers firmly onto the skin of Nathaniel’s upper arm.
	“What are you doing?” Nathaniel asked.
	“Just hang on.”
	Nathaniel gasped. It felt like a needle had been stuck into his arm, but his arm snapped down to his side with impressively little pain compared to his previous attempts, leaving only a sort of hollow ache.
	“Whoa,” he said. “How you do that?”
	“I put the magic into your muscle for you, through my fingers. I know how to do it well enough I figured I could just hijack your muscles to give you a feel for it.”
	“I see now,” Nathaniel said. “Stand back, I’m gonna try it again.”
	Claio moved back a few feet as Nathaniel again raised his arm. He breathed in deep through his nose and closed his eyes, focusing on his upper arm. His arm snapped down, no sharp pain this time.
	“Yes! Perfect,” Claio said. Nathaniel beamed. “Now comes the fun part.” From a small brown sack he brought, Claio handed Nathaniel a sturdy stick about the length of Girindar. Claio grinned.
	“Combat application,” he said.



	For hours, Claio sparred with Nathaniel there on the open tundra, showing him how to combine driving with simple sword maneuvers that Nathaniel had known and used for years in order to make them more effective. By the time they finished, the sun’s position in the sky nigh mirrored where it had been when they’d started. They sky had faded to a dark blue, with a warm orange glow radiating from the direction of the ocean. From the direction of the camp, they heard the deep brass bellow of a horn.
	“Stop,” Claio said to Nathaniel, who was mid swing. “They’re calling all the men. We should head back now, even if we aren’t gonna be fighting with the bulk of them.” Claio gathered up the stuff he brought in the bag and the two started walking back towards the blue and orange tents.
	“We didn’t eat, did we?” Claio said.
	“No.”
	“We should eat.”
	“Yes.”
	As they entered the camp they found it unusually empty, but they heard a rather loud voice, which Nathaniel recognized as the general’s towards the center, giving a speech. By the time they got there it had ended, they began to encounter groups of soldiers walking past them in the other direction.
	“Yo,” came Catherine’s voice. She stood between two tents to their left. “How’d it go?”
	“I can do it,” Nathaniel said.
	“He learned fast,” Claio added.
	“Great,” Cat said. Come on, let’s eat. We all should sleep early. We don’t know what time the Fuuren are gonna charge. Our scouts have already started sending reports of a few trace foot soldiers on the edge of the forest.”
	Nathaniel and Claio followed Catherine to a clearing of sorts in the tents. There were long wooden tables lined up, each supporting trays, bowls, and a host of containers of food. From what the other soldiers were eating, it seemed to mostly be meat stew and bread.
	“C’mon, then,” Cat said, leading them over to a table.
	They got their food and ate it together among the other soldiers. Nathaniel gagged at the stew. They somehow managed to make stew, a liquid, taste dry. Bread was fine, though. Nathaniel scarfed it down fast as he could to avoid dwelling on each unappealing mouthful. They stood up in unison after they finished.
	“I know where I’m sleeping,” Claio said, “So I’m’a head over there.”
	“It’s six in the evening?” Nathaniel said.
	“Yeah, but I got into a habit of sleeping early the day before an important task,” Claio said. “You should sleep early too.”
	“I probably will,” Nathaniel said.
	“Good. I’ll come find you in the morning. I’ll be up.”
	“Alright,” Nathaniel said. “Where am I sleeping, though?”
	“I’ll show you,” said Catherine. Claio walked off, and Cat beckoned for Nathaniel to follow her in the other direction. She walked him uphill through the camp, which was fairly quieter than it had been previously. The reality that at best a small chunk of these men weren’t coming back tomorrow afternoon clearly was not unknown to the soldiers.
	“It’s here,” Catherine said, stopping in front of a very small tent, clearly only intended for an individual or two at most. She pulled one of the flaps to the side so Nathaniel could enter. He couldn’t really stand inside without hunching over uncomfortably, so he just sat towards the back corner of the tent where the bedroll was. He spent a second staring at the fabric of the tent over him, not at it necessarily, but in its direction. He was lost in thought.
	“So,” Catherine said, startling him out of his trance. She’d sat down facing him, arms wrapped around her knees, on which she rested her chin. She was close enough Nathaniel thought it should’ve felt uncomfortable, but it just put him at ease. “You nervous?” She asked.
	“A bit,” he said.
	“Why? You haven’t died yet, and you’re stronger than you’ve ever been before. Plus you got Claio and Will with you, yeah?”
	“Sure, but I’m sorta implied to lead them. I’ve never really taken charge of the group in a fight before. I tend to just do what the others tell me to do.”
	“Well, from what I’ve heard, you haven’t really been fighting all that long. Taking charge in a serious fight while you’re just learning is a bit unhealthy, don’t you think?”
	“Well, yeah.”
	“And you’re not a hindrance in combat, I’ve never seen you make a decision that put anyone in unnecessary danger.”
	“You’ve fought with me twice.”
	“Yeah, but I haven’t heard about you doing that either. And I did ask your friends. You’re a smart guy, I bet you’ve picked up more than you think. From what Claio says, he’s more than experienced with combat, and Will is no stranger to it either. You’ll do fine, I promise.”
	Nathaniel found the sincerity in Catherine’s words a bit surprising, considering her usual sarcasm. 
	“Thanks, Cat,” he said. She closed her eyes and smiled.
	“You don’t seem tired,” she said.
	“Not.”
	“Alrighty then. Let’s chat. Tell me about yourself.”
//XIII
The Danelish Tundra, Harrondian Kingdoms-Fuur Border, Semaru

	“Nathaniel, wake up,” Cat said, shaking him. Nathaniel’s woke from his sleep quickly. “I need to go,” she said. “Gotta be there for the initial charge. You should be up too.”
	Cat left immediately after saying this, and Nathaniel fumbled around, donning his cloak and tying Girindar’s sheath around his waist. He stepped out the folds and into the open air. It was dark still, save for a hint of blue spreading over the sky from the east. He heard chatter and clanking boots, a sound he followed till he was clear of the tents and saw the Harrondian army in formation. Footsoldiers bearing large blue-painted iron shields and spears lined up in rows just beyond the foot of the hills. On the crest of the hill itself were light infantry with a wider range of weapons—hammers, blades, axes, and maces among others. On the sides were soldiers gripping battleaxes and halberds next to horses, which grazed any grass they could find. The topmost row of soldiers had the least amount of equipment beyond just the standard uniform. These, Nathaniel reasoned, were the mages, who didn’t usually enter the melee and therefore wouldn’t need to wear heavy armor. Far across the tundra, he could vaguely make out a sizable army forming just in front of the forest, though he couldn’t estimate how much they numbered, as they appeared to be wearing black armor and were well camouflaged by the dark of morning. It occurred to him that he wasn’t entirely sure where he should be at this point. He imagined it’d be best if he were with the general. He jogged along the edge of the camp towards an area he could make out well behind the army lit by torchlight. As he got closer, he saw the general and her bodyguards. One of the guards turned and thrust a warning halberd out in his direction.
	“I literally saw you yesterday,” Nathaniel said. The guard lowered the halberd, and turned to the general, who was watching the army with an almost terrifying degree of focus.
	“It’s the Druid, ma’am,” the guard said through his helmet.
	“Very good,” the general said without shifting her gaze an inch. Nathaniel just stood there expectantly for a moment, expecting some kind of response from her. There was none.
	“So, do I just—”
	“Yes, wait there,” she snapped.
	“ ‘Kay,” Nathaniel whispered. He looked around for William or Claio, or any of the mages he knew. He found Claio, apparently just asleep on the dew-coated grass of the hillside behind the general’s set-up. He walked over to him.
	“Claio.” He opened one eye.
	“Eh?” Claio said.
	“Morning,” Nathaniel said.
	“Yeah,” he said, sitting up. He paused for a sec, then felt his back. “Oh. It was wet.”
	“Yeah, yeah it was.”
	“So, where’s William?” He asked.
	“Right here,” William said, walking up behind them. His claymore Mohireimdar gleamed brightly, even in the dim light of the morning. “You all got rest, I hope?”
	“I did,” Nathaniel said.
	They continued such small talk for at least an hour as the sun rose high enough to color the whole of the sky blue and better illuminate the enemy. The Fuuren still hid most of their ranks within the forest, and all any of them could see were clusters of figures hidden among the trunks.
	“We’re done waiting,” the General proclaimed. “Either they come out, or we’re burning the forest down around them. Mages, fire ready!”
	The mages, the row of soldiers highest up the hill, clustered into groups of three, each group putting in their hands and conjuring a fireball the size of a small person.
	“Launch!” Yelled the general. Putting new suns into the heavens, the orbs were hurled through the sky higher and farther than Nathaniel had ever seen any conjured thing go. He’d heard Daniel rant about the spectacle of military-level magic, but he’d never come close to seeing anything like it in person. They crashed down upon the edge of the forest, bringing with them the mighty, grey old growths of the forests’ fringe down into a rising cloud of thick smoke.
	“Either they come out, or we keep bombing them until they can’t anymore,” the General said. “Fire ready, bigger!”
	The groups of mages procured another set of fireballs, even larger this time.
	“Launch!”
	These fireballs were hurled as the ones before had been, leaving visible red spark trails as they flew to their destination. A great flash came from where each hit the ground, and seconds later a phenomenal boom hit the Harrondians’ ears for each.
	“Hold!” Yelled the General. All went silent for a short time, so Nathaniel thought, until he noticed a barely audible low, low rumbling. With no signal and no warning, he saw the army of the Fuuren pour out of the smoke. Each in the front rank bore elliptical onyx shields about the size of their bodies, and clenched beyond-meter-long black spears.
	“Soldiers, ready up!” The General bellowed at a volume that Nathaniel thought to himself that no human should realistically be able to attain. Those Harrondians beyond the base of the hail clunched tightly together so that no space was allowed to exist between their shields. The soldiers on the sides mounted their horses, and those on the crest drew their weapons and fixed their eyes on the approaching horde.
	“Charge!” the General cried. The phalanx broke into a run straight at the oncoming Fuuren, and the rest of the Harrondian force followed. Finally both’s front rows met in a shrill wave of clanging steel. The Harrondian cavalry swarmed around the sides of the Fuuren front and began slashing at the body of soldiers. Nathaniel followed one rider with his eyes as he cut his way through the edges of the mob. A bright blue light caused him to blink, and when he regained focus that horse was on the ground with smoke streaming up from a black spot of charred flesh. He began noticing these flashes all throughout the Fuuren army where Harrondian troops had broken in. The Fuuren mages, Nathaniel deduced. A massive boom shook the ground hard enough to make Nathaniel lose his balance. When he looked for it’s source, he saw a huge break, a cone, right down the center of the Harrondian formation, filled with black smoke. The doing of the Fuuren mages. The Harrondians scrambled to fill in the gap, but they failed to do so fast enough to prevent the Fuuren forces from getting a foothold inside their ranks. A sparse hail of fireballs began to fall upon the core of the Fuuren army—from the Harrondian mages—which was met with an identical retaliation of fire coming from the far back of the Fuuren force. Nathaniel now strained his eyes scanning the whole engagement, looking for anything that called for him to enter the fray himself. This, he found, was not easy to do.
	“Do I need to look out for an elite myself?” he yelled to the General.
	“No, we have trained mages sensing for surges in power that would accompany the arrival of one.”
	“Ma’am!” Cried a voice from behind them. “Power surge! Northwest!” It said. To the northwest, just outside the Fuuren ranks, a cloud of black appeared—an incoming teleportation.
	“See? Get over there, that’s you.”
	Nathaniel nodded and clenched Girindar in its sheath. He turned to Claio and William. 
	“That’s us,” he said, “let’s run!”
	“Take the horses at the foot of the hill!” The general yelled after them. They found three chestnut steeds at the foot that they quickly mounted and spurred into a gallop. The bitter air burned Nathaniel’s skin as he rode, but his heart was pounding so fast he could barely feel at all. The conflict was a blur out of the corner of their eyes as they went, the horses striding over the fallen corpses of both sides. Nathaniel saw two figures standing where the cloud had been, both wearing black hoods, one with white hair and the other with black. About thirty feet shy of the two, they jumped off their horses, which took off back towards the Harrondian camp. The three approached slowly.
	“You don’t have the witch to guide you this time, Nathaniel,” said a rhythmic, inexpressive, female voice. Nathaniel had heard that voice only once before, not long ago. The one with white hair removed her hood, revealing her identity to be Tara, the Fuuren women he and cat had fought just inside the forest on the Fuuren border. The black haired one did nothing, standing eerily motionless with their arms at their sides, though Nathaniel got the feeling he’d seen this one before too.
	“The white haired one’s named Tara,” Nathaniel quickly explained to his companions. “She can conjure blizzards around her to disorient her opponents, and she can precisely sense your location while you’re in her blizzard.” 
	“You have a good memory,” Tara said. “But you, Nathaniel, aren’t fighting me this time.”
	“Oh?” He responded, unsheathing Girindar.
	“No, you’ll be fighting this one. This is a trial for them.” She turned to the figure behind her. “Five seconds.” 
	The figure outstretched its arm, emitting a dazzling white light which condensed into a silver blade. It turned in the direction of the Harrondian army, then leapt straight at it. 
Not even Claio had witnessed a more one-sided massacre.
	The figure raised one arm straight out, pointing at a few riders on horses on the fringe of the Harrondian army. A bright blue orb of about a square foot developed quickly in front of her palm, then was launched directly at the target. Nathaniel watched it fly. When it reached its detonation, it exploded into a sphere well over twenty times what it had been, and the horses and riders were thrown into the air, in pieces.
	“Holy shit,” Claio said. “How dense was that orb?”
	The figure raised its arm again, preparing an even larger orb. Claio reached for his blade, but not fast enough. The figure unleashed this second orb as well, and the ground shook when it hit something solid. But no bodies came this time. After the dust of the second blast settled, a simmering blue dome came visible, with Gael just behind its wall, arms outstretched.
	“That’s enough,” Tara said. The figure lowered her arm.“This one will fight you alone, Nathaniel. I will engage your companions.”
	“Not happening,” Nathaniel said. “I intend to fight both of you together.”
	“She won’t give you that option,” Tara said. “Come, Seraila, you can take the hood off now.”
	Her pale hands moved the hood off her head, revealing her still full hair and black-coated eyes of a possessee. It was Seraila, but she was still not herself.”
	“Seraila?” Claio said from behind Nathaniel.
	“Don’t bother trying to talk, Claio,” William said. “She’s fully possessed. She can’t hear you.”
	Seraila leaped straight to Nathaniel, kneeing him hard in the gut. He gasped and went flying backwards well over ten yards. Seraila stuck her hand out to her side and conjured her silver blade, then jumped after him again. William and Claio watched in frozen horror until their view became obscured by white.
	“Now we can start,” Tara said. A blizzard wall enveloped them on all sides, trapping them in a makeshift arena. Tara cast off the black hooded robe she’d been wearing, revealing chainmail body armor and a narrow shortblade which she now held at the ready. William pulled Mohireimdar from his back, which clanked onto the hard soil. Claio pulled his shard out from under his shirt, then unsheathed his two daggers, bending his knees and getting into a defensive swordsman’s position. Both kept their eyes fixated on Tara. William glanced at Claio for a moment, nodding at him.
	“Ynfa!” William proclaimed. Four red runes burned themselves into Mohiriemdar as the blade began to spew sparks. Claio stepped back, and William took a running swing at Tara. Though he stopped well short of where the blade would hit her, a great wave of flame flew from Mohireimdar. Tara flinched to cover her eyes as the flame enveloped her.
	Nathaniel locked blades with Seraila while still barely getting up off the ground. He pushed her back just enough to return to his feet. He gripped his shortblade with both hands, monitoring her movements closely. Seraila broke into a run and circled him like prey. Even this far from her shown full speed, Nathaniel struggled to keep up with her. He felt the warmth of the lines of awakening spread across his arm, face and torso. He no longer trusted he’d be able to block whatever attack came next, and he was ready to heal himself. From his right, Seraila lunged again, Nathaniel pirouetted and deflected her blow. Seraila lunged into a flurry, and Nathaniel’s arms burned trying to keep up with them. He knew his guard was going to break soon if he didn’t do something. He then noticed that amongst the flurry Seraila consistently left her right side more exposed that the rest of her. He felt her blade hit his, and the moment he felt the pressure come off, he overdrove, slashing at Seraila’s side moving his arm even faster that Seraila had been moving hers. Her previously still eyes widened and she leapt back, but not fast enough to prevent a small cut from the tip of Girindar. Nathaniel’s arm stung from the burst, but he quickly healed it back to normal. Seraila stood still a few yards from him, well out of range, then broke into a circular run again. Likewise, Nathaniel brought his sword to the ready. He saw her sword arm twitch and moved his to block. She pulled her arm back and with her other arm chucked a bright projectile at him. It hit him square in the chest, knocking him off balance. It left a strong pain in his chest—several fractured ribs—which would take more than a few seconds to heal. His vision went blurry. In this state, he wouldn’t be able to block a full-strength hit.
The fire cleared and left smoke in its wake. 
Tara’s form came into view, completely unscathed. “Fuuren don’t burn,” she said. William grunted and jumped back towards Claio. Tara narrowed her eyes, crouched down, then lept straight at William. His eyes widened as he struggled to move Mohireimdar to block.
	“I got you!” Claio yelled, leaping and locking blades with Tara in the place of William. They struggled there, each pushing against the other. With a loud grunt, Claio drove in his arms, knocking Tara back with the sudden surge of force. She regained her balance and stared hard at him. Her face was now serious enough to unnerve a fighter of even Claio’s experience. She raised her free hand, and sparks of blue lighting began to fly from her palm. William squinted his eyes at her, quickly realizing that he was squinting not due to the light, but because of his difficulty seeing it. The snow no longer was confined to the wall Tara had made around them, but now fully filled the arena, obstructing their vision. 
	“Claio!” William called, unable to see his ally.
	“I’m here!” Claio returned, from William’s right. William turned, trying to find him, but was stopped by a sudden pain in his chest, like a burning brand. He screamed and fell to his knees. Before he hit the ground, he heard a yell of pain from Claio. But Claio did not fall to the ground. He swung his daggers straight forward, cutting through the top layers of Tara’s flesh as she jumped back in surprise. Claio could feel the skin of his chest had been burnt raw—the electricity had been an attempt by Tara to incapacitate the both of them—though his several experiences being on the wrong end of interrogations throughout his life more than prepared him for any pain. William’s injury was more severe, his wound having welled up with spots of blood under his shirt, and considerably more painful. William snatched from his coat a small vial that he drank from, placing the empty container back in its pocket. Very quickly, he was able to stand again. Tara skulked around the fringes of her snowstorm, carefully calculating her next attacks since her opponents proved her usual assassination techniques wouldn’t easily be as effective. Claio was worried. Though he could defend himself, the self-destructive nature of the only available combat style meant he could not do so indefinitely. He knew that William most likely was not prepared to fight in this situation, though, and the snow severely inhibited any cooperation between the two, their best shot at survival. As such, he understood it was imperative to remove the blizzard that circled them. Fleeing, he knew, was not an option, as Nathaniel had already told them that Tara could sense movement inside the cloud.
	“William!” He called. “Your sword is magic, right? Can it make wind?”
	Williams eyes widened. He understood Claio’s intent immediately. 
	“Elan,” he dictated to his blade. Four white runes etched themselves upon it. With the combined strength of both of his sturdy arms, William heaved Mohireimdar forward, bringing with it a gust of wind strong enough to nearly knock himself off balance. The end of the blade collided with the ground, and the wind dispersed the storm around them. The battle far to their right and Tara keeping her distance in front of them both came back into view. Tara’s face became flushed, betraying a humanity she had not shown previously, and she raised her shortblade. A consistent blue glow from the battlefield caught William’s eye.
	The Harrondian army was in disarray. Whatever magic cut a cone in their line had convinced the General to send the White in as reinforcements. Though they were, as soldiers, inexperienced, the defensive specialists in the group, particularly Gael, proved invaluable in maintaining the Harrondian position. Now, Gael alone maintained a massive blue shield dome over the bulk of the Harrondian forces. Fireballs from the far back of the Fuuren ranks crashed into the dome, though it did not falter. The Fuuren, evidently, noticed how ineffective their attacks proved, and the hail of fire abated. Gael dropped the shield and fell to his knees, breathing slow, heavy breaths. A soldier near him ran to help him up, stretching out his hand. Gael took it.
“You’re gonna get many medals for what you just did there, friend,” the soldier said, pulling Gael to his feet. 
A man and his companion, far across the Tundra, out of sight or knowledge of either army, or anyone involved in the battle, noted Gael’s shield as well. 
“That was an impressively-sized dome,” said the long-haired mixed Janangese-Harrondian. “He could be very useful, if he survives the battle.
“Can you see him?” asked the other, more muscular man of Catherine’s race, the Ma’uali.
“Yes, a Dzaki Elf,” the long-haired one said. “But we can’t interfere yet. The Fuuren can’t retreat. I still need to see more of what they’re capable of.”
“Soldiers are dying, Jaren,” said the Ma’uali.
“And more will, if I don’t get the rest of these readings.”
“Why can’t I go? I can sense a powerful unbound Banshee. To hunt rogue undead and black magic is the duty for which I was brought back. This is my duty.”
“Against an army of Fuuren, even you’d be in danger, Gajo,” said Jaren.
“Very well.”
At the front of the Fuuren line arrived a very tall, black haired Fuuren male, clenching a silver halberd. By some terrible strategic oversight, the White had all modified their uniforms with a minimal but noticeable white stripe across the breast. The tall one, looming at least a head over everyone else, marched through the field, charging at any men he found wearing the stripe. Three of the White fell by the time Daniel realized what was going on. Before his eyes, a woman he’d been acquainted with for two years was impaled and fell limp to the ground.
	“No!” He cried. A few footsoldiers nearby heard this cry, and charged at the Fuuren, only to be cut down themselves. The Fuuren, holding the halberd limp at his side, turned his gaze to Daniel. Daniel’s hands started to shake. The tall one stretched his arms out to his sides—a taunt. Daniel raised both his hands in front of him, procuring a clump of glowing, pure mana between his hands. Perfecting that clump into a sphere, he shot it at the Fuuren. During its flight, the Fuuren stuck out one palm, casually absorbing the impact with no indication of pain felt. 
	“Daniel, careful!” Gael yelled, coming up behind. “This one’s probably specially trained to kill mages.”
	“What do we do?” Daniel asked. The Fuuren pointed two fingers at the two and shot a white bolt of mana. Gael shoved Daniel aside, conjuring a field to absorb the impact. Still, the tall one did not move from his spot.
	“What offensive spells do you know well?” Gael asked. 
	“Uh, fire-stuff.” Daniel said.
	“That should work,” Gael said. “I’ll try to cover you..”
	“Uh, right!”
	Gael now stepped in front of Daniel, arms at the ready to procure a shield. Gael was worried. His skillset was very defense-heavy, meaning he alone could not defeat an opponent specifically trained to counter mages, as he now faced. Daniel, he knew, had an insanely wide array of magic under his belt. However, he also knew from his over a year of living with Daniel that his scatterbrained nature led him to have a general knowledge of an abnormally broad array of subjects without ever becoming what would be considered ‘skilled’ in any particular field. As such, he took considerably longer to perform tasks that would be almost instantaneous to a more specialized mage. Daniel kindled a flame between his palms, hot enough that even Gael could feel the heat several yards ahead. The Fuuren noticed the flame, still not moving.
	“Ready, Gael!” Daniel shouted. Gael lunged to the left, well out of Daniel’s line-of-sight with the Fuuren. Daniel sent the ball of flame flying. Hitting the Fuuren, it exploded into a bright cloud of flame. The Fuuren stepped out of the cloud. Though his armor was singed, he was unscathed. Both mages’ eyes widened in horror. The Fuuren wiped soot from his eyes, then finally brought up his halberd. Both took a step back. He charged straight at Gael. 
	“Shit,” Gael said, outstretching his hands. He conjured a white shield in front of him, which took the halberd’s hit straight on. The Fuuren did not stumble, immediately regaining control and darting around the shield, swinging the sharp end at Gael, who jumped backwards. The Fuuren pointed two fingers and fired a shot a Gael, who dodged, allowing the bolt to hit the ground several feet behind him.
	“Hmph,” uttered the Fuuren, stretching out a hand. A flame like Daniel had made came alive in his palm. Gael held out his hand to block. 
	The Fuuren vanished in a white light. Gael quickly looked around, desperately trying to locate his opponent. Daniel, who’d been preparing an orb of pure mana, looked around too.
	“Where—”
	With another flash of light, the Fuuren appeared behind Gael. The bolt that he’d fired had not been intended to hit Gael at all: it was to create a mark. Now on the opposite side of Gael’s shield, he unleashed the flame that he held in his hand towards Gael. It was a direct hit. Gael screamed as flames enveloped his body. He fell to the ground.
	“Gael!” Daniel yelled, cancelling the spell. He ran to aid his friend, but the Fuuren intercepted his path, pointing the halberd at him. The screaming stopped. Gael was going to die—this Daniel knew. Daniel clapped his hands together, concentrating his magic. He needed the magic to flow smoothly for this spell, but his heated trembling made this difficult. He thrust forward his hands, projecting a large spray of water which hit the Fuuren to no effect but passed him and dulled the flames on Gael’s body. The Fuuren paid no heed to the body of Gael, only staring at Daniel and advancing. Daniel threw a quick bolt of flame at the Fuuren, again to no effect. Flustered, he made a small amount of electricity and tased the Fuuren with it. To his surprise, though that attack had been much weaker than his previous one of fire, the Fuuren visibly winced. It was here he remembered a set of tales from an old lorebook he’d read, tales depicting Fuuren emerging from blazing fires or frozen lakes as though it were ordinary air.
	“The Fuuren are immune to fire,” he thought. The simple solution would’ve been to just not use fire, but this proved problematic for Daniel, whose viable combat spells exclusively involved fire and heat. The Fuuren picked up his pace, raising his halberd to swingable height. Daniel looked up. Grey clouds covered swaths of the sky. He had an idea.
	Seraila started walking straight at Nathaniel. He, still clenching his chest, began moving backwards in an effort to stay out of range. Seraila threw her blade in the air, briefly capturing Nathaniel’s focus. In this moment, Seraila thrust out both her palms, shooting two glowing bombs towards Nathaniel. The flashes of their creation brought Nathaniel’s attention back. Neither was going to hit him, rather narrowly miss him on either side. Seraila caught her blade as it fell back down and lept at Nathaniel, blade pointed to puncture through his chest. He cursed, frantically scanning for a path of escape, but the blasts ensured there was none on the ground. 
	On the ground.
	Without thinking, Nathaniel inhaled sharply and drove in both his legs, thrusting high into the air, several yards above Seraila’s already inhuman altitude. She locked eyes with him as she flew under. Behind him, two simultaneous booms shook the ground. Seraila landed and spun, leaping back at him with her sword ready at her side. She swung. Nathaniel felt a pop in his chest, and a sudden relief. With renewed energy, he maneuvered himself in the air, rotating his blade and locking swords with Seraila. Both pushed off, hurling back to the ground. Neither stumbled, each landing squarely on both feet. Nathaniel might have been able to heal his injuries, but that feat came with a heavy toll in exhaustion. He felt thick drops of sweat running down his brow, and was choked by heat despite the climate.
	Daniel heard the tip of the halberd pass his ear. He was walking backwards, dodging the swings of the anti-mage’s halberd. It was clear that the Fuuren only toying with him. Daniel incessantly sloshed small uppercuts of flame at his assailant, stopping every dozen attacks or so to thrust his hand in the air. Sweat ran down his cheek. The Fuuren betrayed no reaction to anything Daniel did, proceeding only to follow him. Daniel navigated them in a loop, which they went around like this a few times.
	“What are you doing?” The Fuuren’s voice probed.
	Daniel looked up at the sky. Quickly, he spun himself around and ran to the top of a small hill. The Fuuren stopped swinging and hastened his march towards him. A brief boom of thunder. Daniel thrust both palms into the air and looked up at the clouds, panting heavily. The Fuuren continued his ascent up the hill, now raising the halberd. The clouds above the crest of the hill swirled like the start of a tornado. A flash. A louder boom. The Fuuren stopped, eyes widened, threw down the halberd and held both hands up to the sky. 
	A blinding, titanic bolt of lightning hurtled down. The Fuuren conjured a solid blue shield above his head, but it was useless. The bolt obliterated the shield and him. The soil for a meter around where the Fuuren had been charred deep black. Daniel glanced over to the clump of Fuuren soldiers that was the body of their army in the distance. He groaned, and an equally massive bolt of lightning came down and cut through their ranks like butter. It dispersed out the opposite end from which it had entered. Fighting appeared to stall in awe of the charred land it had left. Daniel stood there, hands still in the air. He let out a laugh, burst into a fit of the mad laughter of unexpected relief, then falling flat down upon the hill.
	“What was that?” Asked Gajo.
	“Another mage” said Jaren, beaming in awe. “I’d have trouble—hell, my father would probably have had some trouble—pulling off something like that in a combat situation. He used heat from his fire attacks to stimulate the growing storm above him, then used magnetic magic to pull down a bolt of lighting with all the energy in the storm system! The mage is either very intelligent, or his opponent was being careless. Probably both. Unfortunately, I don’t think the amount of Fuuren he killed with that second bolt will be enough to turn the tide of battle for them.”
	Jaren stood.
	“This requires my intervention, I think,” he said. “I’ve got all the information I need. I am going to prepare a very large Kasaigaro. You might want to step back.”
	Jaren closed his eyes placed both his palms together.
	At the crest of the hill, behind the shrinking Harrondian line, Catherine was aiding the artillery mages in creating projectiles to launch at the opposing army. She had pulled back her hair into a ponytail, allowing her full access again to the powers of her eye. The trios of mages would conjure fireballs as Catherine enhanced them with boosts of black magic. She’d been doing so since the begin of the battle and had worked herself into a trance, until now. She froze, looking off to the west.
	“This feeling…”
	Her eyes widened.
	“Jaren!”
	The General marched towards her. 
	“Catherine, what are you doing?” She demanded.
	“General, you need to get the army out of here, now!”
	“Excuse me? I am in charge here, witch.”
	Catherine spun with alarming speed and stared straight into the general’s eyes. The General shuddered, the gaze of Catherine’s black eye seeping deep into her soul.
	“Listen to me,” Cat said, chillingly. “If you get your men out of there, we will win this battle with almost no more casualties. If you don’t, we might lose everyone out there.”
	The General stood still for a minute, a look of shock printed on her face.
	“Trust me,” said Catherine. The General glanced to the ground.
	“Very well,” she said.
With the blizzard dispersed, William and Claio threw themselves into full combat against Tara. Claio expected her raw swordplay to be lacking due to her reliance on incapacitation techniques like the blizzard, but he was sorely mistaken. Despite her being a lone fighter with a single blade, she held her own against two fighters with three blades between them. She was not, however, having an easy time gaining any ground. William, being built like the powerhouse he was, could swing the hefty Mohireimdar with ease, meaning Tara had to constantly duck or leap, as a direct hit from the near one-hundred-pounds blade would likely shatter her much lighter sword. Tara flipped backwards. A deep horn bellowed far behind them. William froze.
“The Harrondian army is retreating!” He exclaimed.
“They’re what?” Claio yelled. He glance over his shoulder confirmed William’s claim. 
Claio reached under his shirt and pulled forth his amulet.
	“I guess now’s the time to use this,” he said. He squeezed the amulet, and it glew red to life as wisps of that red sizzled and weaved about him. Claio drove in his legs, so powerfully with the amulet that a chunk of the ground at his feet was pulverized, and hurled himself flying towards Tara with blades at-the-ready. She leapt to the side. William ran up to her and gave a heavy swing with Mohireimdar in time with a leap of Claio’s, but Tara managed to roll along the ground out of harm’s way. All three now stopped. Tara gave a quick glance in the direction of Seraila. Claio calmed the shard. William glanced at him worriedly.
	“I can’t use it that long, and I’m not landing any hits. At that rate I’m just hurting myself,” Claio said. William thought. Claio was right, they weren’t landing any hits. She was too nimble and to alert to corner, especially in a wide open region like this. They needed to handicap her, even if only for a second. William started. 
	“Fire!” He said.
	“What?” Claio returned. “She’s immune to fire, we just tried that.”
	William spoke the word for fire to his blade, then tensed up, not saying anything to Claio.
	“What?” Claio asked. William readied his blade, then shoved off the ground, lunging at Tara with his claymore behind him. She raised her blade. William began to swing, then shoved his feet into the ground, locking  him in place while the momentum hurled the blade forward, spewing a gargantuan wave of flame. Tara squinted, raising her arm to block the light as the wave passed over her.
	William jumped into the fire. He felt his own flesh sear as his body broke the flame in two and brought Mohireimdar down upon Tara as she reopened her eyes wide in horror. 
	Seraila wasted no time in beginning her next attempt at Nathaniel’s life. She began porting in circles around Nathaniel, disappearing and reappearing so quickly that there seemed to be three separate versions of her all encircling Nathaniel like a horde of hyenas. A flash of light behind him. Nathaniel spun and raised his sword, blocking Seraila’s blade but catching the full brunt of her momentum before she ported away and another flash came behind. Nathaniel spun again, still off balance, and barely managed to parry her blade. She disappeared again. Two flashed came from either side—two orbs hurtling towards him. Nathaniel ducked, spinning his head each way frantically trying to locate Seraila. He saw no flash. He turned behind him and saw the glint of the tip of her blade inches away from his face, and growing closer. Her eyes were there too, steeled and emotionless. Nathaniel saw an image of them as small children.
	And then she was gone. 
	William’s blade smashed hard into the ground. Small wisps of black dispersed around them, but Tara was nowhere to be seen. The cloud of flame behind William dispersed too, and Claio stared confusedly. 
	“Where did she go?”
	William stood there, hunched over with the end of his blade in the dirt.
	“Far away, I think,” he said. Claio frowned.
	“How can you tell?”
	“She teleported, but very quickly. She’s not a mage, either. To be able to teleport away at that speed means she prepared a mark beforehand. She may come back, but we have a moment, at least. Claio jolted.
	“What about Nathan and Seraila?” He said, with urgency. They both turned their heads behind them.
	Nathaniel had fallen onto the ground. His chest was pounding, and he looked all around for any sign of Seraila, but there was none. It was quiet. He heard the cries and stomping of the armies moving away, slowly, to the south. He thought for a moment that he might be dead.
	“Nathan!” Claio yelled, running up to him. “Are you okay?” Nathaniel looked up to Claio’s eyes. It was now that how much his whole body ached. 
	“Yeah,” he said. “Where’s William?” Claio quickly glanced around.
	“He was right here.” He turned around. “Oh, shit.”
	William was laying on the ground, groaning. Both Claio and Nathaniel ran up to him.
	“What happened?” Claio asked.
	“I jumped through a cloud of fire, what do you think happened?” William said, raising his arm. The sleeve had burned off in parts, revealing charred skin which gave way to blood-dampened red spots. “Second-degree,” he said, “I’ll be fine, but I can’t move without medical attention.” Nathaniel looked at one of his hand. He summoned a thin, green aura around it.
	“Let me see your arm again,” Nathaniel said. William met his eye, then raised the arm as asked. Nathaniel placed his hand over an exposed area, and William winced for a short second before his face relaxed. “Is it working?” Nathaniel asked.
	“Yes,” said William. Removing his hand, Nathaniel saw that the skin had largely mended itself, though it was still pink. 
	“I’ll try and get the rest of your arm,” Nathaniel said. Claio turned south towards the Harrondian encampment.
	“Guys,” he said. “That doesn’t look good for us.”
	Indeed it wasn’t—the whole of the Harrondian army, which had lost over a third of its ranks, now was in full retreat, with the larger body of Fuuren soldiers in full pursuit. Catherine watched this with bated breath at the top of the hill. The general stared at her, expectant and growing angry. Cat looked off to the east.
	“Jaren, please,” she said.
	“Jaren, now,” said Gajo. Drops of sweat ran down Jaren’s brow. With a sharp inhale, Jaren opened his eyes. From between his palms, an incredible light flowed. He thrust them forward.
	“Kasai-garo!” He screamed. Obscenely large orbs of white light—pure magic—flew forth from his hands by the dozen, hurtling towards the Fuuren army at speeds beyond the sound barrier.
	Both armies stopped in their tracks. All living things on the tundra were frozen in awe and terror. 
	“Duck!” Screamed Nathaniel. Claio snapped from the trance and threw himself to the ground. An orb flew by a few feet over their heads. The Fuuren did not duck. The orbs collided one-by-one into the body of their army, creating explosions more than twice the size of each orb and throwing up Fuuren bodies. This continued for beyond half a minute, but at the end the Fuuren army was not much more than a field of craters and blades.
	The Harrondian army was entirely missed by the orbs. Many of the soldiers fell to their knees. Some cried. Others simply stared. To many, this didn’t feel right. They had been losing—severely, one could argue—but now they had won by seeming divine intervention. It took the group some time to move. They trickled in small numbers back to the crest of the hill, many to the medics tents, others to wherever they could sleep.
	William raised his head from the dirt. Nathaniel was on the ground beside him, wide-eyed and jaw hanging, and Claio was laying face-down in the dirt.
	“That was… Jaren’s technique,” said William.
	“Jaren?” Nathaniel responded. “That’s the name Tara had asked Catherine and I about.”
	“That’s right.”
	Catherine turned to the general and grinned. The general didn’t look at her—she stared out onto the battlefield.
	“Did you do that?” She asked, softly.
	“Not me,” Cat replied. “My teacher, I guess.” Wisps of black appeared around Cat, swirling until her figure was enveloped and fizzled away.
	She reappeared next to Jaren, who knelt on the ground, breathing heavily, and Gajo, who stood a few feet behind him. Jaren craned his head to her.
	“Catherine,” he said. “You’ve grown up.”
	“Thirteen years will do that to an eleven-year-old girl,” Catherine said. Jaren chuckled to himself.
	“I suppose so,” he said, grinning.
	“Why are you here? I haven’t been able to get so much as a hint to where you’ve been since the Fall of the House.”
	“Preparing for a moment like this,” he said, rising to his feet. He gazed off over the tundra. Gajo peered at Catherine’s dark eye.
	“Her eye. This is the girl you taught magic to?” Gajo asked. 
	“Yes, this is her,” Jaren said, not facing either of them. “Catherine, this is Gajo, he works with me.”
	“I don’t get to see anyone of my race very often,” Catherine said. “What are the odds that the one I do see also happens to be undead?”
	“Not many of us outside the southeast,” Gajo said. “And low. But I would not be over here with Jaren if I weren’t undead. As a reaper, our goals align well enough. You’ve never been to our homeland, if I remember Jaren’s story right.”
	“No, I’ve never been to Ma’ual. Never even been out of the kingdoms.”
	“I hate to cut your conversation off,” interjected Jaren, “but that Dzak mage, the one who made the shield, I want to save him. And he’s dying very quickly.”
	Catherine spun. 
	“I can teleport us to him,” she said.
	“Do it.”
	The wisps appeared again, surrounding all three of them, whisking them away. They appeared again in the center of the tundra, over the limp body of Gael. His clothes were largely charred off, and what was left was black and ruined, revealing his skin. All the skin they could see was covered entirely in third-degree burns, bloody and raw. He wasn’t moving, though shallow, raspy breaths came slowly.
	“Gajo,” Jaren said. Gajo moved over to Gael and lifted the elf over his shoulder.
	“Catherine, would you like to come with us?” Jaren asked.
	“Come where?”
	“We’ve turned a cave in Kammir into a base of sorts. I’ve supplies there I can use to help this man. I also have a gift for you, of sorts, that I worked on several years ago.”
	“A gift?” Cat inquired.
	“Yes, but we really need to be going now, or the elf will die.”
	“I’ll come,” Cat said. Jaren grinned.
	“Good,” he said. “Grab on.”He held out his hand, and Cat took it. The three vanished with a pulse of blue light.
	Nathaniel had moved over to William and begun healing his legs.
	“Can you stand?” He asked.
	“Help me up,” responded William. Nathaniel pulled William to his feet, then wrapped his arm around his shoulders.
	“Let’s head back,” Nathaniel said.
For the next several hours, the medics would be busy. Soldiers were lifted off the field in varying conditions, from injured to dead. Daniel was lifted off the hill by two of the white.
“Gael…” he muttered, half-conscious, “where’s Gael?”
“We didn’t find him,” one said. Daniel met his eye, then dropped his gaze to the ground. “I’m sorry.”



	The inside of Jaren and Gajo’s “base” was rather cramped, atop the fact that it was inside an actual cave. This room was in a larger cavern, though the ceiling was still only maybe a head higher than Gajo, the tallest there. The uneven walls were covered in banners and drapes in blue—the color of the Harrondian Kingdoms and its now-fallen House of Mages—and bookshelves cluttered with myriad multicolored tomes of various sizes, none of which, to Catherine’s surprise, were dusty. There were papers everywhere, too, a small some adorned with meticulous diagrams and the larger majority covered in hastily-scrawled notes. In the center of the room was a large, heavy, circular table made of wood and stone. This is where laid the unconscious body of Gael.
	His clothes had been removed, revealing the burns to be much more severe than Jaren had suspected. His entire body, save the skin of the upper-right portion of his face, was completely seared. His hair had burned off as well, save again for that spot on the right of his head. Jaren stood over the table, having removed his robes so he was now in a much lighter sleeveless shirt. His brow furrowed.
	“Gajo, the roll,” he said. Gajo brought a massive spool, nearly a yard in length, of a thick white cloth. Jaren flicked his hand. The spool levitated out of Gajo’s arms and began to unwind itself. The cloth split into many smaller strands—each no more an inch and a half in width. Jaren began moving his arms, making signs and positions faster than either of the other two could keep track. On those strands, blue aura in the air printed themselves into long strings of runes.
	“Catherine, there’s a vial of blue liquid on the shelf behind you, bring it to me.”
	Catherine got the vial and brought it to him.
	“Pour it into my mouth,” he said. Catherine squinted at him.
	“There’s no time, Catherine,” he said. Cat lifted the vial and poured it into his open mouth. He swallowed, and from his body a light breeze filled the room. Smoothly, he gestured his hands into the air. Gael levitated, and the strands began to weave themselves around him, wrapping firmly around every curve of his body, their runic text glowing as they fastened into place. Gael was now covered in the cloth—bandages—on every part of his body except the one spot of his face.
	“Will those bandages heal his skin?” Catherine asked.
	“Over several years, maybe,” Jaren said.
	“Years?” Cat asked.
	“Yes. I’m no medic, but even if I were I couldn’t heal burns like these. These bandages are heavily enchanted—among other things, they’ll suppress the pain and aid his body in healing. They should bend and stretch effortlessly, a bit like a second skin. With them on, he’ll be able to function normally. Though I suspect he’ll be in for a bit of a shock when he wakes up in a few hours.”
	“What if he took them off?”
	“That would be bad,” Jaren said. He then flicked his wrists again, and Gael’s body floated down onto the table. “Now that he’s stable, I can give you the gift.” Catherine looked, expectantly. Jaren turned around and walked over to one of the bookshelves and retrieved an older, dark grey book.
	“Your own Kasaigaro.”
	Cat’s eyes widened.
	“What? You know I can’t use blue magic, Jaren.” 
	“Yes, I know. You remember, though, when we fought Mask over a decade ago, we once made a Kasaigaro together?”
	“Yes, I remember. A black magic Kasaigaro. And you said—”
	“That it’d be impossible for you to perform alone. I was wrong—partially, anyway. I came up with this idea several years ago. A modified Kasaigaro castable entirely of black magic,” Jaren said, flipping through the book. He stopped on a particularly information-dense page and handed it to Cat. She looked it over.
	“I see…” She muttered, eyes scanning back and forth over the page at an alarming speed.
	“I have to warn you, though,” Jaren said. Cat looked up at him.
	“Warn me?”
	“Don’t use the Kasaigaro Black unless you’re prepared to die.”
	Catherine only looked at him.
	“This version of the Kasaigaro is indeed a fully-functional, black magic based spell castable by a single person. However, from what I’ve been able to gather, it’s incredibly volatile. Its potential power is technically much greater than my Kasaigaro, but it’s also a coin flip for your life.”
	“So, I need to be willing to die for the cause I use it for.”
	“Correct.”
	“I’ll keep it in mind,” she said. Her gaze moved over to Gael on the table. “What are you going to do now? Just wait for him to heal?”
	“For today, yes, though tomorrow, we need to find a way to get through the fog.”
	“The Fuuren fog?”
	“I think I know of a way to cripple the Fuuren empire forever,” Jaren said. 

//XIV
Near the city of Kaceir, Fuur, Semaru


	The blizzard was especially dense. Very little was visible save the occasional cut of night sky and the darkening silhouette of a tall spire—a lone outcropping on the sprawling arctic flatlands. Seamus had never before entered this far into the Black Empire, and indeed he was probably the only non-Fuuren, save Morten, to have ever done so. He walked up to the base of the tower. It was decagonal, with rough edges from joining hunks of the dark grey stone from which it was made. Shallow cracks ran over swaths of the walls. It was a massive structure, over six yards to the length of every side. The side of the tower in front of which Seamus stood held the gate, three times his height at least. He pressed his hand to the gate and pushed with his body’s natural strength, but it did not budge. A wave of red emerged around him and flowed along his arm. He pushed again, and the door flew open. He stepped into the antechamber. It was a tall, empty room, and very dark. The gate slammed shut behind him. Small torches clung to the walls near the ceiling, each of which burned with a faint, deep red flame which saved the room from pitch darkness. In the floor in the center of the room was a steel plate, decorated with copper. Seamus stood on it, and a low rumble filled the room.
	The plate lifted slowly off the ground, carrying him up through the tower. Holes would open up in ceilings to allow the plate and him to pass. Each floor was nigh identical to the first one, though some held assortments of twisted magic equipment and others were adorned with some furniture for living, albeit plain pieces. The plate came eventually to a stop on the final floor, and it clicked into place. This floor was at least three times taller than all the others, and about a third wider. There were no walls as there were on the other floors: a ceiling was suspended by rectangular pillars lining the edge, with about a yard between each. Still, the blizzard outside did not enter the room, the work of a type of ward enchantment, Seamus could sense. Each pillar had a large torch on it, all burning with a bright orange flame much lighter than those on the floors below. Seamus stepped forward off the plate, and it descended back down, to be replaced by tiles which blent into the rest of the floor.
	“Rha leakr nge?” A deep voice came from behind him. Seamus turned to meet Kanos.
	“Lhemus leakr tazo’u,” Seamus said to him.
	“Morten speaked of you,” Kanos said.
	“I am sure he did,” Seamus replied. The two held each other’s stare for a long moment. Swiftly, Kanos clenched his fists and raised his arms slightly to either side. A cloud of black magic began flowing around him. Red light enveloped Seamus, and he jumped straight at Kanos, planting a full-powered punch right in his chest. Kanos flew back, crashing into and cracking one of the pillars before his body fell limp. Seamus patiently watched the body for half a minute, until it fizzled away into black dust. Footsteps behind him. Seamus turned and met the gaze of the second life of Kanos, who was unscathed.
